The Project Gutenberg eBook of Miss Primrose
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Miss Primrose

Author: Agnes Giberne

Release date: July 19, 2025 [eBook #76528]

Language: English

Original publication: London: John F. Shaw & Co., Ltd, 1896


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MISS PRIMROSE ***

Transcriber's note: Unusual and inconsistent spelling is as printed.



[Illustration: "Is this the young lady who puts my work to rights?"]



                           _Miss Primrose_

                                 [and]

                          [_A Strange Will_]


                                  BY
                            AGNES GIBERNE


                              AUTHOR OF

             "OLD COMRADES," "WON AT LAST," "LIFE-TANGLES,"
                       "FLOSS SILVERTHORN," ETC.


                             NEW EDITION.


                       John F. Shaw & Co., Ltd.
                             _Publishers_
                   3, Pilgrim Street, London, E.C.



                              CONTENTS.

                           [Illustration]

                           Miss Primrose.

                              ————————

CHAPTER.

    I. THEIR POSITION

   II. HOW THE LETTER WAS NOT WRITTEN

  III. MR. RUDGE

   IV. "SOMETHING TO DO"

    V. RAIN! RAIN!

   VI. TO-DAY OR TO-MORROW

  VII. THE LETTER

 VIII. THE RESOLVE

   IX. TO TOWN

    X. A QUESTION OF AGES

   XI. MR. OGILVIE'S OLD FRIEND

  XII. THE REAL MISS PRIMROSE

 XIII. DULL LETTERS.

  XIV. STILL AMONG PERPLEXITIES

   XV. "MR. AND MRS. RUDGE"


                          A Strange Will.

                              ————————

CHAPTER.

    I. MAKING A WILL

   II. A STRANGE DIFFICULTY

  III. "MISS HARVEY"

   IV. "A COUNTER-PROPOSAL"

    V. THE PROGRESS OF EVENTS

   VI. NATHANAEL PLUNKETT

  VII. BROKEN ICE

 VIII. A RESCUE

   IX. WASTE PAPER



                           MISS PRIMROSE.

                           [Illustration]

CHAPTER I.

_THEIR POSITION._

"IN our position, Pauline,—"

It was a phrase often in Mr. Ogilvie's mouth. He said the words slowly,
as he stood in the window, a tall thin man, narrow-shouldered, with a
reedy inclination to stoop, looking this way and that way, manifestly
wishing to escape.

"Yes, father," she answered sharply.

Mr. Ogilvie did not finish the sentence. He only hung his head, with
its limited brow, its pinched aquiline nose, its weak though kind eyes.
The worst feature in the face was his mouth, a loose orifice, the upper
lip long, the lower jaw disposed to drop.

Pauline was a contrast to her father. No manner of weakness could be
detected in the outlines of her neat trim figure. She made the most of
her little height by carrying herself resolutely erect like a dart;
and nobody ever saw Pauline lounge. Her nose was as much too short as
his was too long, and she bore it through the world in an assertive
fashion, sometimes mistaken for conceit, but Pauline was not conceited.
She was only keen-eyed, quick-witted, energetic, and somewhat
intolerant.

"In our position, my dear,—"

Mr. Ogilvie came to another helpless break. He seemed to be vainly
trying to frame an apology for something or somebody.

"Yes. In our position—?" she said, by way of helping him. "Go on,
please."

"My dear, you interrupt me. You confuse my ideas. You are too hasty,
Pauline, my dear."

Pauline had a neat small button of a mouth; the prettiest feature in a
face not otherwise good-looking. She pressed her compact lips together,
as if to shut in something which might be said.

They were looking out upon a deserted parade, with a grey sea beyond.
The sky above was grey to match; indeed, the match was so perfect that
one would have found it difficult to say where the clouds ended and the
water began. The whole made one indefinite grey shield, cutting off the
horizon. A thick driving rain had fallen continuously for hours, and as
yet showed no sign of abatement.

"You were going to say something about 'our position,'" Pauline
remarked presently, as no further utterance came from her father. "What
was it? Something about 'our position.'"

"My dear, you interrupted me, and drove what I had to say out of my
head," Mr. Ogilvie murmured plaintively.

"It is not a very pleasant position, father,—ours."

Mr. Ogilvie cast a longing glance at the parade.

"You promised me to settle something, weeks and weeks ago. Nothing
is settled yet. And I have waited patiently enough, I am sure—nobody
can say I have not. But patience will not keep us going much longer.
Patience will not pay our bills."

"We have to come to a decision, of course. But matters cannot be
settled hastily—in our position."

"The most remarkable thing about our position is that we never settle
anything."

"You do not understand, Pauline,—of course you do not. Women never do.
But pray, don't get excited. It makes me quite nervous when you speak
in that tone. There is no hurry."

"Father, shall I show you a list of the bills that are owing?"

"There is no need, I assure you. I am quite content to leave all
housekeeping questions in your hands. I have entire trust in your
capabilities."

Pauline moved impatiently. "My capabilities don't go to the extent of
paying bills out of an empty purse!" she said.

"My dear, I am aware of that. I do not form unreasonable expectations.
It is not needful to speak so loud," said Mr. Ogilvie, with a
victimised expression.

Pauline dropped her voice several notes. "I have exactly eight
shillings in hand."

"Not more? But of course you have managed rightly. Money will be coming
in soon."

"About half enough to meet over-due local bills, not to speak of
current expenses to come. It is not my fault," she said, looking him
straight in the face. "How can I manage differently, when—"

"Well, well; there is no use in talking, Pauline. Manage any way you
like, only I really cannot stand this sort of discussion. We must
consider what must be done. Of course, it is impossible to go on so.
But I cannot decide anything in a hurry. And Nessie will be at home
now; we shall not have the pull of Nessie's schooling. That will make a
very considerable difference."

He would have moved away, but Pauline held him fast, against his will,
with her steady gaze.

"You have not written yet to your friend—what is her name?—The old lady
whom you used to know. I have not heard her name."

"I will write—yes—certainly—some day soon."

"Why not to-day—now? I have pen and paper here. Why put off?"

Her impulsive manner grated on Mr. Ogilvie's fastidious languor. He
rubbed his narrow forehead slowly, with a purposeless hand.

"My dear, I cannot possibly write at this moment. I must consider what
to say—and I have something to do out-of-doors first."

"Always something to do except what needs to be done!"

Pauline emphasized the words by a slight shake of her shoulders.

"Yes, my dear, yes. I'll write, Pauline, I'll write, but pray, don't
get so excited. It makes me quite nervous and agitated, dear, when you
speak like that—it does indeed."

"You always say you will write, father, and you never do it. Three
weeks ago you promised to get the letter off 'to-morrow,' and it was
never done. We are just as vague now in our plan as before we came to
Singleton; and the little extra money we have had is vanishing fast. We
can't go on so. There has been too much delay already. I don't know in
the least what claim you have on this particular old lady, nor how she
is to help us, but if nothing can be arranged without a letter to her,
the letter ought to be written at once."

Mr. Ogilvie began to pull on his gloves.

"You do not really think of going out in such weather?" she protested.

"I must, my dear. There is a—a paper which I must procure—a magazine.
The rain is not likely to stop. Probably it will not hurt me. I am not
made of salt."

He laughed faintly, not cheerfully, for he was by no means a cheerful
man. Since the death of his wife, he had been like ivy bereft of its
sustaining oak. Pauline inherited much of her mother's vigour, but she
lacked self-control, and her energetic ways worried him, not being
softened by sympathy.

"Cannot you put off your walk till to-morrow, and stay in now to write
to your old lady? You will come back tired and wet, and another day
will be lost. Nessie comes home to-morrow, and I want it done before
she arrives."

Mr. Ogilvie's lips moved deprecatingly.

"My dear, I cannot do things in such a hurry. It is not my way. I must
have time. Nessie coming home to-morrow! Yes—I forgot—I thought it was
the day after."

"But all that you need say will be written in ten minutes. See how the
rain is pelting. You can't start yet. Here is your writing-case."

Pauline had a certain power over her father. He sat down at length with
a resigned air, pen in hand. Pauline stood near, unconscious how her
gaze paralysed his thoughts.

"Can't you begin? 'My dear'— What is her name?"

No answer.

"Is it a secret?"

Mr. Ogilvie traced slowly two words—"My Dear Miss—," and there he
stopped.

"Dear Miss what?" Pauline's curiosity was getting the better of her
tact. Hitherto she had refrained from direct questions on the subject.

Mr. Ogilvie pushed the paper away. "I cannot do it—I really cannot. I
have not made up my mind what to say!"

"Is that so difficult?" Pauline planted her trim little figure exactly
opposite to him, with the table between. "It depends on what sort of
person she is, I suppose, partly, but after all you have not much
choice. We are in money-troubles, and we want help. That is the gist of
the matter. You only have to smooth down and round off. If you are so
anxious that I should not see you write her name, I will stand in the
window with my back turned—though why you should make such a mystery of
it all—"



CHAPTER II.

_HOW THE LETTER WAS NOT WRITTEN._

"HER name is Primrose," faltered Mr. Ogilvie, like a schoolboy brought
to book.

"Primrose! Is that it? Nothing very distinguished, after all. Well,
now you can write 'Dear Miss Primrose.' Then you can refer to our
troubles—to my mother's death, if she does not know it, and to the
loss of our money. Tell her we have been living on in the old house,
till we could sell it. I suppose it would be better not to say that we
have been recklessly using what was left of our capital, and that it
is nearly all gone. You might explain that we have been for six weeks
in this poky place, without a notion what brought us here, and that we
are at our wits' end what to do next. Then you can ask her whether she
could not possibly help you or me to some sort of work just to bring in
something extra, if it were only fifty pounds a year. Only do begin,
father, one way or another. Tell her frankly how we stand, and ask her
advice."

Pauline confused Mr. Ogilvie with her eager and rapid utterances. He
listened in a troubled manner, as if vainly trying to fix his thoughts.

"I cannot do it, I really cannot," he said again. "Not at this moment,
I mean. My head feels bewildered. You shall tell me by-and-by what to
say—only not quite so fast, my dear—and then I shall be able to take it
in."

"Mr. Rudge has promised to spend the evening with us."

"Has he? Ah, yes, I remember. But I shall be in long before then. There
is plenty of time."

"And you promise to write to Miss Primrose when you come back?"

"I will see about it."

"Father, if you find the letter such a trouble, why should I not write
instead? Why not?"

"My dear, it would not do. It would not do at all," Mr. Ogilvie looked
fretted. "Pray do not think of such a thing."

"Thinking isn't much use, for I have not her address," Pauline
responded. "But I don't see why I should not write. Something ought to
be done."

Mr. Ogilvie made his escape at last, Pauline going with him to the
front door. When she turned back she was confronted by a young man,
a gentleman, who had just come downstairs. He was, perhaps, about
thirty, with a fair reddish complexion, and light hair. A certain
wishy-washyness which sometimes goes with such colouring was in his
case obviated by a broad-chested figure, over medium height, and by
darker eyebrows and moustache. The effect was curious, not unpleasant,
and he had a particularly genial smile.

"Wet day, Miss Ogilvie."

"Very." Pauline retreated before him into the sitting-room, as if it
were a matter of course that he should follow, and follow he did. "I
have been trying to persuade my father to stay in, but he won't hear
reason."

"Men never do, I believe!"

"Not often," laughed Pauline. She stood by the fireplace in her usual
erect attitude, the short nose so lifted as to point slightly upwards.
It was an attitude which always gave the impression of a struggle after
increased height. Pauline certainly was short, quite under medium
height for women. And she looked shorter than usual beside her present
companion, who gained extra "bigness" from his large enveloping cloak.

He stood looking down on Pauline with a good-humoured, interested
expression. And Pauline gazed up at him with her usual
self-assertiveness, into which, however, a tinge of softness had crept.

"Especially when the reason flows from feminine lips!"

"You are making out a bad case for yourselves. A man ought to be
willing to hear reason from any and every quarter, if he is such a
reasonable animal as he is supposed to be."

"That's rather cutting! You won't exercise your logic to keep me in, I
hope, for duty calls me out. I never go against the calls of duty. And
you are not my father."

He laughed outright. "No, not quite. Not quite that."

Pauline coloured vividly. "I mean—you are younger. You have not his
health. Besides—" after a pause—"I suppose I ought to confess that
I was not thinking so much of his health. I wanted him to write a
business letter."

"Ah! Horrible things, business letters! By-the-by, did you not say that
your sister was coming home this afternoon? I have to go to the station
presently. Could I be any help as to meeting her? The weather is so
bad—for you, I mean. I would gladly put her into a fly—or—"

"Thanks. We can't afford the luxury of a fly, and Nessie does not
arrive till to-morrow."

Pauline spoke the words rather stiffly. She was not anxious to throw
Mr. Rudge and Nessie together more than need be. Of course they would
and must meet—but still—Well, Nessie was undeniably pretty, and Pauline
was not pretty at all. Pauline knew this, and did not mince matters
with herself. In a general way she was not jealous. She loved and was
proud of Nessie. But still—!



CHAPTER III.

_MR. RUDGE._

THE truth was, a new factor had come into Pauline's life,—a new element
altogether, in the shape of Leonard Rudge.

Pauline had reached the age of twenty-seven without a love affair.
She had always declared stoutly that she did not want to marry, that
she did not care for men, that she preferred a single life. This was
all very well, so far as it went. Most sensible women do prefer a
single life, until they meet with the one individual who alone can
make married life preferable. Pauline was so long before she met the
said individual, that she had made up her mind he did not exist. Then,
suddenly, he appeared.

During six weeks past, she and her father had been in Singleton.
Pauline would have found it hard to state why they had first come.
After leaving the home of her childhood, she had not greatly cared
where they went next, all the world looking equally forlorn.
And Singleton had seemed to offer economical advantages—a prime
consideration. Mr. Ogilvie suggested the name first, in his hesitating
way. He had known the little watering-place in his youth, and he had
a wish to see it again. Pauline acquiesced somewhat indifferently. It
was not a fashionable watering-place, and what season it possessed
was not in May or June. The spot might do as well as any other for a
while, till they had formed some more definite plans for their future.
Once installed, they stayed on, week after week, and plans remained as
indefinite as ever.

Nobody knew exactly how acquaintance began between the Ogilvies and
their fellow-lodger. A lifted hat, a kind word, some little help when
needed—these were the first stages. And then the acquaintanceship
ripened fast. Pauline did not like strangers generally, and she was apt
to give them a cold shoulder. She liked Mr. Rudge, however, and she
made no objection whatever when her father asked him in to "high tea"
and a game of chess. Mr. Ogilvie was a good chess-player, and he found
his match in Rudge. Yet chess-playing did not take up all the time.
Rudge found leisure for divers little chats with Pauline.

He was a pleasant young man, no doubt, well-informed, frank, and
agreeable. Nobody knew anything about his antecedents or his intended
future. Nobody knew why he was down here, who were his relatives, or
what were his circumstances. When Pauline and her father arrived,
Rudge, who arrived a day earlier, had spoken to his landlady about "a
fortnight's holiday," but six weeks had flown, and still he remained.
He was always meeting the Ogilvies, always making opportunities for
intercourse. He seemed to be growing quite fond of the dreamy and
incapable elder man. As for Pauline—

That was the question! As for Pauline? He could not be said to
definitely seek her; yet he and she had perpetual encounters. His
manner might not be that of a lover, but it was that of a cordial
friend. There could not be the slightest doubt that he liked Pauline
more or less; only the doubt was, how much more, or how much less?
There could not be any doubt that he was interested in Pauline;
nevertheless, the kind and degree of his interest might be difficult to
define.

She was not in the least good-looking, and never had been. Beyond the
possession of a trim figure and a neat button-mouth, she could lay
no pretensions to personal charms. Men often do fall in love with
much plainer women than Pauline, but such women have, also often, the
redeeming qualities of lovableness, sweetness, or, at the least, of
soft and winning manners.

Pauline's manner was neither soft nor winning. It was downright and
dogmatic. Such amount of softness as she could display did come to
the surface in Leonard Rudge's presence, but at its best it was not
much. Nor could she be called, by any stretch of politeness, a lovable
person. She was true and reliable, and practically unselfish, but by no
means sweet or lovable. She had many angles, and they were apt to knock
against people in her near neighbourhood.

With some women twenty-seven is a very charming age. The freshness of
girlhood has lessened, but the more finished and mellowed charms of
womanhood have developed. But Pauline had lost her early freshness
without gaining any new charms. She was as curt and blunt at
twenty-seven as at seventeen.

Despite all this, she exercised to some extent an attractive power over
Mr. Rudge. He laughed at her often, yet she interested him, and touched
him.

She was so little, and she had so much on her hands. That big limp
helpless father, who was good at nothing in the world except chess,
leant upon her absolutely. Nothing could be done, nothing could be
arranged, without reference to Pauline. And Pauline accepted the
burden so uncomplainingly, did everything for him so willingly, acted
so careful and motherly a part to the younger sister at school! These
things took a certain hold upon Rudge. In his strong manhood, he
thought pityingly of one so small, with so much to do.

On the part of Pauline there was no hesitancy, no slowness. Before she
had been a fortnight in Singleton, she knew Leonard Rudge to be the one
man living who could make life radiant to her. And she imagined—was
it surprising?—that she might be the one woman who could perform the
same office for him. Why else should he stay on in this dull place,
week after week? Why else should he be always trying to see her, always
doing little kindnesses? Of course, reasons unknown to her, and apart
from herself, might keep him. Of course, many of their meetings were
accidental. Many were distinctly initiated by Mr. Ogilvie. And of
course little kindnesses are natural to any polite and kindhearted man.
Still, the condition of things was not quite ordinary.

An outsider would have found it as difficult to judge from Pauline's
manner as from that of Mr. Rudge, exactly how the land lay. She was
not demonstrative. Her usual air was self-constrained, not to say
prosy. Her eyes were not given to betraying what she felt. An unwonted
tinge of softness in her manner might have meant much to one who knew
her well, but Rudge, perhaps, did not know her very well. When he was
present, the softness came, extending itself to others as well as to
himself. And when he was not present—but, of course, Rudge never saw
her then, so he could not possibly mark the difference. She had also an
odd dry way of veiling her thoughts by talking of Singleton as "a poky
place," and wondering how anybody could choose to stay there; all of
which meant nothing, though it might well take people in.



CHAPTER IV.

_"SOMETHING TO DO."_

THE Ogilvies occupied the ground-floor dining-room, and two bedrooms at
the top of the house. Rudge had the upstairs drawing-room, and the best
bedroom behind it, which looked like a sufficiency of means—as also
did the cut of his coat, and the gentlemanly finish of his Gladstone
bag, visible on the landing. But Pauline knew nothing about his
circumstances, further than she might conjecture from such signs.

When Nessie's name was mentioned, she took a seat, and plunged into
the intricacies of a grey stocking, which grew fast under her capable
fingers. Rudge stood at the table, big and broad and good-humoured,
watching the fingers, as they moved with lightning rapidity. He did
not know that this was her excitement vent, but, doubtless, he noticed
that the motions of the said fingers were not graceful. They partook of
Pauline's general angularity.

"I thought you told me that your little sister would arrive to-day. My
mistake, no doubt."

"No, not till to-morrow. One can hardly call her 'little.' She is much
taller than I am—only, such a child still."

"How long do the holidays last?"

"They are to be interminable. She will not go back to school."

"Ah—home education."

"I suppose she will read a little. She ought, but girls don't always do
what they ought. Seventeen is too young to leave off lessons."

"She is seventeen?"

"Just that—ten days ago."

"Anything I can do for you out-of-doors?"

"Unless you meet my father—"

"And if I do?"

"Send or bring him back to write a business letter."

"I'll remember. Business letters are of importance."

"This one is. If Miss Primrose—"

An odd change passed over her companion's face.

"Yes! If Miss Primrose—?"

"I forgot. He did not seem to like me to know her name, so I ought
not to have repeated it. But, after all, I don't see that the thing
signifies. A prosaic name enough."

"Flowery, rather. What were you going to say about Miss Primrose?"

"I don't know. My father has talked for weeks of writing to an old
friend—"

"An 'old' friend! Yes?"

"Do you know her?" asked Pauline, struck with his stress on the
adjective.

"I've seen a lady of that name. I shouldn't have called her old.
However—no need to say anything to your father."

"He never told me her name till to-day, and then it came out. He knew
her years and years ago, I believe, when he was young, so she can't
be very juvenile. It is just a matter of business. I don't know why I
should not explain. My father or I must get something to do, to keep us
going."

She tilted her nose a little higher than usual, and looked up at him
with the grey eyes which rather veiled than expressed her feelings,
while the grey stocking grew fast. Meaning enough was expressed in the
motions of her fingers could Rudge have read it.

"Something to do!"

"Something or anything. I don't care what. My father would care, I
suppose: gentlemen are so particular! I can't break stones on the road,
and I couldn't well undertake washing or ironing, but anything within
my powers—We lost money lately," she went on. "Most of what we had.
That is why we have left our old home. Don't you know so much?"

Rudge had gathered "so much," but he had not gathered that they were in
actual difficulties still.

"I'm sorry," he said. "I didn't suppose—"

"My father seems to have known Miss Primrose long ago, but he certainly
has not seen her for ages. I don't know why he has never mentioned her
name. I don't know why he expects her to help us. But he will come to
no decision without writing to her, and he will not write. By 'helping
us,' I mean finding us something to do in the way of work. One need
never be ashamed to work."

"No, indeed. I should have thought you had enough on your hands
already."

"It's always the case of the willing horse, you know."

"I'm afraid that's just it. If I meet your father, I shall be sure to
remind him that he is wanted."

Rudge vanished, but apparently he did not meet Mr. Ogilvie.

The latter's return was long delayed. And when at length he appeared,
he was far too dripping and miserable for letters.

Pauline urged the necessity in vain.

Mr. Ogilvie changed his wet clothes, made himself comfortable in an
easy chair, and declined to exert brain or fingers.

"Quite impossible," he said. "To-morrow would do as well."

Then Rudge came in, according to agreement: and tea and chess had sway.
No allusion was made to Miss Primrose. The evening hours passed swiftly
to Pauline, in a maze of quiet happiness. Not much conversation took
place, but what did it matter? Enough for her to sit at the table,
plying her needles, watching the game, stealing glances at the strong
broad shoulders and the good-humoured reddish face, which had taken so
strong a hold upon her being. An occasional glance in her direction was
all she needed.

If only things might go on so, always! But Nessie would come home on
the morrow: and that might mean differences.



CHAPTER V.

_RAIN! RAIN!_

PAULINE stood on the station platform looking out for Nessie's train.
Her waterproof cloak was as limp and nearly soaked as a waterproof can
be, and her closed umbrella formed a puddle near her feet. A second
pelting day had followed the first; and she had walked to the station
for economy's sake. Nessie would arrive directly, so no need to remove
the draggle-tailed cloak. She gave it a shake, flapped the umbrella,
and set herself to renewed waiting.

"Thanks for an artificial shower," a voice said at her side.

Pauline twisted sharply round, chilly and wet no longer in imagination,
whatever her outer woman might be. "You here, Mr. Rudge!"

"Seems like it."

"Did I sprinkle you? I thought nobody was near."

"Merely a small shower-bath!"

"I'm sorry, but,—You had business at the station yesterday!" with
meaning stress on the last word.

"Undeniably true."

"And to-day too?"

"To-day too!" He looked impenetrable. "Are you anxious to know what the
business is?"

"Of course it is not my concern—but—"

"I have a big parcel to get home."

"You had not that yesterday?"

"I beg your pardon, I had. But the day was so wet."

"And to-day is so fine!"

"That's just it! We may have this lovely weather for a month, and I
want my parcel. So I chartered a cab."

"Wouldn't the railway people send it for you?"

"I didn't ask them. The cab is there, secured and waiting. Room inside
for you and your sister."

"Oh, there's no need, thanks. We can easily walk."

"I haven't a doubt of that. The question is, whether you couldn't more
easily be driven."

Pauline looked dubious, not as to her own liking, but as to the
requirements of the case.

Rudge did not weaken his point by disputation. "Don't stand still," he
said. "The air is wringing wet. And, pardon me, you must take off that
cloak. We'll give it to the driver. So—and your umbrella." He had them
both by this time. "I meant to save you the wet walk, as I had to come,
but when I'd got the cab, you were gone."

"I had some shopping to do by the way. When one can't keep dry, one may
as well be any amount wet," said Pauline. "I don't know why you should
bother yourself in this way," she added, to hide an inward glow of
pleasure.

"I don't know either, if it is a bother."

He stopped at the bookstall and purchased a "Punch."

"There's a cartoon that I want your father to see. Well, did he arrive
in time for the business letter yesterday? Somehow I failed to find
him."

"It was not written. Inclination was wanting, not time."

"I wonder whether inclination is ever otherwise than wanting in the
case of a business letter. Miss Ogilvie, is this letter one of great
importance—to you?"

"Yes. I don't know why, but it is. We can't go on as we are doing now.
That is the reason," she said frankly, though not usually disposed to
frankness about family affairs. "Our plans ought to be settled; and my
father seems able to settle nothing without reference to Miss Primrose.
I don't know why."

"The said settlement of affairs might involve a move from Singleton?"
inquiringly.

"I suppose so. We have no idea of living here. What I want is to find
some work—something to add a little to our income. And, of course, a
home in some place where we can economise."

"Miss Primrose is an old friend of your father's, you say?"

"They must have been friends before I was born."

"Ah!"

"More than a quarter of a century ago."

"Yes!" in a rather odd voice. "There comes the train. What is your
sister like?"

"Nessie! Oh, tall and pretty—a school-girl. Light hair and eyes."

The train drew up. Pauline grew flushed, and began to run, but Rudge
checked her.

"No hurry," he said, with amused eyes. He took the matter coolly
himself, glanced to right and left, then approached a third-class
compartment, in the doorway of which stood a slight creature, girlish
but not school-girlish, with fluffy fair hair and sky-blue eyes. Rudge
singled her out as if he had known her all his life.

"Miss Nessie Ogilvie?" he asked. "Here is your sister. How many trunks?"

Nessie stooped from her superior height to kiss Pauline, and then drew
up, repelled by the indignant "Nessie! In public!"

Rudge saw, heard, and laughed inwardly. He had the luggage together in
a trice, ordered a man to convey it to the cab, and ushered the sisters
in the same direction, impervious to Pauline's conscientious efforts
after resistance.

Pauline felt herself managed, and gave in.

When he disappeared in search of a parcel, Nessie seized the
opportunity to ask, "Who's that?"

"Mr. Rudge. He has lodgings in the same house. Father likes him."

"He's ugly—but not disagreeable, I should think."

"Ugly!" Pauline could have protested, yet she did not wish Nessie to
admire Mr. Rudge.

Once off through the persistent downpour, Pauline began to realise the
pleasantness of being so conveyed.

"Easier than walking, isn't it?" Rudge said, smiling.

"Yes. You must let me share the fly with you."

"I thought we were sharing it already."

Pauline was conscious of being worsted, and she let the matter drop.

Rudge was studying Nessie at intervals, with evident interest. Pauline
had expected this, for Nessie was decidedly pretty. She had a taking
little face, small-featured, with soft blue eyes, and short hair of
pale straw-colour in a fashionable confusion of waves and half-curls.
Nessie was only seventeen, just ten years younger than Pauline. There
had been three sisters between the two, none of whom had lived beyond
infancy. Pauline loved Nessie dearly, counting herself well able to
play a mother's part. Perhaps her rôle had been a little too maternal
as to authority, since a mother's tenderness had been lacking. Nessie
could scarcely be said to return, measure for measure, the elder
sister's affection.

But then, the said affection was not commonly visible in manner. This
makes all the difference. Pauline had a sharp manner of speaking
to Nessie, as to others, and sharpness does not win love. All the
practical kindness in the world, shown by one friend to another, or
by one sister to another, will not undo the effects of a sharp and
argumentative tone.

Pauline knew herself to have failed somehow in that quarter, but she
did not exactly understand how. She was not great in self-knowledge.

Reaching the house, Rudge handed both sisters out. He marked, with his
dry little smile, the difference between Pauline's impetuous descent
on the pavement and Nessie's soft slow movements. Two sisters could
hardly have been more unlike. Nessie had not her father's features, the
long thin nose, the long weak upper lip, or the long limp chin, but her
languid gentle manner was distinctly inherited from him. She had none
of Pauline's air of being moved by springs, of acting in jerks.

"Well, Pauline! So you were prudent and took a cab, after all! Well,
Nessie!"

It was easy to see which daughter lay nearest to the father's heart.
Not that Nessie was more estimable or more useful than Pauline. She
was only more soft and winning. Practical worth and usefulness by
themselves are not lovable.

Nessie dropped quietly into Mr. Ogilvie's arms, and held him fast,
secure of no rebuff here, and heedless of Pauline's propriety notions.
"Nessie!" the latter muttered, but in vain.

Mr. Ogilvie and his youngest went into the dining-room, clinging still
each to the other.

Rudge stood, with his big parcel, looking at Pauline.

"How much is my share, please?" she asked.

"Your share?"

"Of the cab."

"Two seats," said Rudge, with a bow. "All right!" he called, and the
cab drove off.

"But—you have not paid him."

The remark was passed over. Rudge looked again at Pauline over his
parcel, and said, "Hardly a child! Charmingly pretty."

"Nessie! Yes, she always was pretty." Pauline forgot the cab question.

"The prettiest creature I have seen for a long while."

"Everybody thinks so, of course." Pauline went upstairs without more
ado to change her draggled skirt. "Like the rest of the world," she
murmured to herself. "Nothing but a pretty face is worth thinking of. I
should have thought 'he' could be above that. But I see how it will be."



CHAPTER VI.

_TO-DAY OR TO-MORROW._

"FATHER, you have not written to Miss Primrose yet."

"No, my dear."

"Who is Miss Primrose?" demanded Nessie.

"An old lady! A friend of father's. I don't know much about her. Father
has to write and get advice."

"Not this evening! I'm only just come home."

"Yes, this evening. Nessie, you must not hinder father. The letter has
to be written. We cannot go on like this."

"Go on like what?"—and Nessie opened her sleepy blue eyes wider than
usual. She was lounging on the sofa, in an attitude which would have
been ungraceful in anyone less young and fair; and her short hair was
ruffled by contact with the cushions. She sat up slowly, gazing at
Pauline. "What has happened?"

"Nothing new. Nothing that you don't know. Only that we have not money
to spend as we are spending, and nobody will believe the fact."

"Father is the best judge," said Nessie, as if she at once scented
blame in that direction. She went across the rug, and twined an arm
in Mr. Ogilvie's. "But we are used to being kept in order by Pauline,
aren't we daddy?"

Mr. Ogilvie patted the soft little hand, greatly comforted. Pauline had
a way of making him feel himself in the wrong, and it was comfortable
to have somebody near who would help him for once to feel that Pauline
was in the wrong.

Nessie sat down on the arm of his chair, and laid her cheek against his.

"Who is Miss Primrose, and where does she live? Why have we never seen
her, or heard about her?"

"My dear, it has not happened—" Mr. Ogilvie coughed away the rest of
his sentence. He always had a cough ready for emergencies.

"But why hasn't it happened? Are you such old friends?"

"I knew her—yes—very well—"

"When, daddy?"

"My dear, years ago."

"When you were young?"

"Well, yes—" with a faint laugh.

"What makes Pauline so bent on getting up the acquaintance again?"

"It is not on my own account, Nessie. I am bent on knowing what we are
to do."

"I don't see what that has to do with this. Does Miss Primrose live
alone, father?"

"She may—probably."

"Is she handsome?"

"I have not seen her for—for more than twenty-five years. Not since
Pauline was a baby. She was—rather pleasant-looking."

"Rather pleasant-looking, twenty-seven years ago. Oh, she must be a
regular old fogie."

"When you are a quarter of a century older, I wonder how you will like
to be spoken of so!" said Pauline.

"I can't imagine myself a quarter of a century older."

"But you must come to it if—"

"Oh, well, we all know that lots of things must happen. I shouldn't
think I need have a moral lecture, the very moment I get home. Was Miss
Primrose pretty, father, all those years ago?"

"She was—nice-looking, I believe."

"Only 'nice-looking,' you believe!' Is that all? At any rate you
weren't in love with her, daddy."

Mr. Ogilvie reddened slightly, yes, actually reddened, and made an
uneasy movement.

"'I' shouldn't like to be only 'nice-looking.' I'd rather be ugly
outright—as ugly as Mr. Rudge. I do admire a fair woman, but fair men I
detest. Father, did Miss Primrose—Where are you going?"

"I have something to attend to, my dear."

"That is always the way," declared Pauline, as her father vanished. "He
never will go into business, or tell us about Miss Primrose. He runs
away if one tries to make him."

"You worry him so about her. Why can't you leave him in peace?" asked
Nessie, as if forgetting that her own questions this time had driven
him off the field.

"Because—Nessie, you are a baby, or you would understand. We can't
afford to 'live in peace,' as you call it. We haven't the requisite
funds. That is why. It would be a mere fool's paradise for us—ending
by-and-by in a crash. There is not money enough in our possession for
us to live as we are living now, yet I can't get my father to see it.
If you help him and fight against me, you will just make things worse."

"I can't see why. I'm sure the way we live is simple enough. And even,
if we have to make changes, there is no such desperate hurry. A week or
two more or less can't make such a lot of difference."

"You are my father over again. It is always 'no hurry' with him, and
so we go on, frittering away all we have. The money will soon be at an
end."

"Not his annuity."

"We shall get down to that, and that only, before long. One hundred and
ten pounds a year."

"Well, it can't be helped." Nessie laid her fluffy head against the
cushion. "I don't see any use in worrying."

"So you and he always say. If we had done all in our power, then I
would agree with you, but not till then. It's very easy to shirk worry
by putting off all responsibility on another person, but somebody has
to 'worry,' as you call it, somebody has to think and plan, or nothing
would ever get done. I wonder what sort of state you two would fall
into, if you had not me to look after you both."

"A delicious state. I should lie in bed till noon, and nobody would
ever talk about money."

"That's charming, of course, when there is enough money not to need
talking about. Unfortunately, the less there is, the more one has to
discuss its uses. People who have to earn a livelihood can't lie in bed
till noon; and we are coming fast to that stage. However, if I go out
as a companion to some old lady, you will be able to try your plan.
Experience isn't a bad teacher."

Pauline spoke sharply, as if wounded. She toiled much for her father
and sister. And it was, to say the least, dispiriting to find no
particular gratitude felt in return.

Nessie's perceptions were by no means keen, but she was conscious of
something wrong. "Go out as a companion!" she said wonderingly.

"I don't see what else is to be done. Father will never find any work
to his taste, and somebody must do something. I should be off his hands
then—provided with house-room and food; and I should make at least
enough for my own clothes."

"But we couldn't manage without you! And I don't know anything about
ordering dinner."

"You would have to learn," said Pauline, not greatly flattered by the
estimate of her uses. "Everybody can learn."

"I am sure I couldn't. I hate that sort of bother. Oh, you mustn't go,
of course. I didn't mean what I said just now. We could never get on
without you."



CHAPTER VII.

_THE LETTER._

"IT'S done."

"What is done?"

"Father has written to Miss Primrose!"

"What has he said?"

"I don't know exactly. He did not let me see."

"I hope you are satisfied now. You have given him no peace since I came
home."

"Nessie, if you will not understand how things are, I can't make you."

"I do understand, but there are different ways of doing things."

Pauline might have retorted, with equal truth, that there are also
different ways of not doing things. She was hardly in spirits for a
retort, however, unless it was an ill-tempered one; and she was doing
her best not to give way to ill-temper.

"Where have you been?" asked Nessie, gaping.

"Only to the corner—to see father post his letter."

"I shouldn't have thought two people were needed for that task.
Couldn't you trust him to go alone? Or couldn't you do it for him?"

"I couldn't trust him not to change his mind before he reached the
pillar, and he would not give the letter to me. I might have seen the
address."

"Well—if you had! Why should he mind?"

"I don't know. He does mind."

"It's some antique love affair, Pauline."

"Nonsense!"

Yet Pauline wondered whether Nessie's guess might have hit the mark.

"And the letter is gone—after all this fuss! It seems queer to be
begging help of a stranger."

"Not a stranger to father, and not begging help. Only asking if she can
advise me where to get work. That's what I want. No use to think of
work for him. He has always taken life easily, and when one is getting
old, one can't change."

"I mean to take life easily. Suppose no answer comes from Miss
Primrose?"

"Then I hope my father will see that we have to decide for ourselves."

Nessie sank into a brown study, lounging among the cushions. She was a
very indolent young lady, fond of limp postures, not easy to dislodge
from a comfortable corner, and not addicted to needless exertion. Mr.
Ogilvie called her "delicate," and sympathised, being himself of the
same lymphatic temperament. Pauline called her "lazy," and tried the
routing plan, without much success. Possibly both were true statements,
but the one had not much to do with the other. Nessie might have been
delicate without laziness, or lazy without delicacy. Many most delicate
people are full of energy, free from ease-loving indolence; and many
people in good health are overburdened with it. Delicacy and indolence
may co-exist in one person, but they are quite as often separated. Mr.
Ogilvie's plea for Nessie is, however, the common plea put forth by
laziness.

Four days passed, and no answer arrived. Mr. Ogilvie grew restless, and
fell into a nervous tremor whenever the postman became visible. He was
plainly disappointed.

After a spell of rain, fine weather had come, and Rudge was often
out-of-doors. Pauline had not seen nearly so much of him since Nessie's
return. And the last few days, she had scarcely seen him at all. She
tried for a while to cheat herself out of an acknowledgment of the
fact, but this could not continue. Nobody guessed how that prosaic
little being watched for his coming and going, how she listened for his
footsteps overhead.

Mr. Ogilvie and Nessie only found her rather more tart than usual.

"What are we to do next, if Miss Primrose doesn't write?" she asked,
after lunch, on the fourth day of waiting.

"Miss Primrose is sure to write."

"Yes, so one may say. But if she does not?" A pause. "She may not be
alive even. How can you tell, if you have not heard from her lately?"

Mr. Ogilvie stood up to escape, as usual.

"If anything had happened, I should have heard," he said. "Is no one
going for a walk this fine day?"

"I can't. I have all this mending to do." Pauline pointed to a pile.

"I'll go," volunteered Nessie. "Pauline is glued to her patches and
darns."

Pauline made no defence. She did not wish to move, brightly though
the sun shone. She knew that Rudge was indoors, and he might chance
to come to the downstairs sitting-room for a word. He had often done
so, just at this hour, to ask if he could do any little thing for
her out-of-doors. She could not afford to risk absence. All this was
not definitely acknowledged to herself, but the motive underlay her
resolute clinging to the pile of work.

Mr. Ogilvie and Nessie vanished, and Pauline sat alone, busy with
fingers and mind. The door had been left rather more than ajar, and she
did not rise to shut it.

A quick step crossed the room overhead, almost immediately after the
shutting of the front door, and an odd question came up—Had he seen Mr.
Ogilvie and Nessie start? Pauline quashed the suggestion at once, but
it obtruded itself again. For Rudge was hurrying downstairs. Would he
put his head in, and—?

No; he did nothing of the kind. Pauline could not see him pass
where she sat, but he did not so much as turn his head towards the
dining-room door. Had he done so, he must have caught a glimpse of
Pauline. He went along the passage swiftly, straight to the front door,
and was gone, walking briskly in the same direction as that taken by
her father and sister.

Pauline's needle lay idle for awhile, as she sat questioning with
herself. What could it mean? That had not been his wont lately. Till
Nessie came home, he had made or accepted constant little opportunities
for intercourse with Pauline: such opportunities as this which he had
now flung away. Had anything come between him and her? Had Pauline
herself been too frank about the family circumstances? Had Nessie said
or done aught to turn him from her? Pauline answered the last question
at once in the negative. Nessie was very vain, and not very brilliant,
perhaps even a little dull mentally, but nobody could accuse her of
malice.

Then—was it that Rudge had been fascinated at first sight by Nessie's
prettiness?

This at least was not impossible. Pauline had not lived twenty-seven
years without gaining some notion of masculine susceptibility to looks.

If Rudge were changed, a cause, of course, existed; and Pauline felt
sure he was changed. She looked at the matter resolutely, accepting
this as a fact, forgetting how easily one may be deceived.

One or two hot tears were distilled, and then she braced herself up,
determined that nobody should guess her trouble—Mr. Ogilvie and Nessie
least of all.



CHAPTER VIII.

_THE RESOLVE._

WHEN they returned from their stroll, she was sewing diligently, as if
no thought save of household repairs had crossed her mind during the
interim.

"Oh, dear, I'm so tired," Nessie as usual declared, dropping on the
sofa. "I do want my tea. No letter from that old lady, I suppose? We've
had a walk on the Parade with Mr. Rudge, all this time!"

"Really!" said Pauline.

"He overtook us before we got there. I suspect he saw us start, and
came on purpose," laughed Nessie.

"Where is he now?"

"Oh, he didn't come back—had something to do, but he stayed on the
Parade as long as we stayed. He's nice, I think—rather. I like him
better than I did at first: if only he were better-looking. Perhaps he
isn't quite so ugly when you get to know him, but nobody in the world
can call him handsome."

Pauline could have done so, but of course she would not. Her heart sank
low. If she had but left her mending, and gone out! To have missed such
a pleasure! Yet would it have been a pleasure, if in truth his aim had
been—Nessie?

"Well, I suppose you both want some tea?" she said, getting up.

"Awfully," yawned Nessie.

Then, after a break—

"Mr. Rudge has been telling us lots about himself. He lives at a place
called Wokingholme. It's in the country, not a great many stations off
from here. He must be the squire there, I fancy. That's why he never
seems to have anything particular to do. And I dare say he is rich.
He and father got upon land improvements, and there was a lot of talk
about turnips and mangold-wurzel. I hate farm talk, and I almost ran
away. Didn't Mr. Rudge ever tell you before where he lived?"

"I never asked him."

"I don't see why you shouldn't. There's no harm in asking, if one wants
to know. I found out something else too. He's an orphan, and he was
brought up by an aunt. Father wanted him to come in to tea, but he said
he couldn't; he had a heap of letters to write."

"Then squires have something to do, I suppose, after all?"

"Oh, letters—yes, but not regular hard work."

"Some people seem to think letters the hardest work of all," murmured
Pauline.

Then the postman's knock sounded. Singleton was not one of those
watering-places where the knocker has given place to the bell. Nessie
looked lazily at Pauline, and Pauline went out.

"A postcard for father," she said, returning.

Mr. Ogilvie was embarrassed between a full cup and crumbling cake.
"Postcard! Is that all?" he asked, "Some advertisement. Read it aloud,
my dear."

Pauline obeyed promptly.

"Letter received. Quite right. Glad to hear again. Send your eldest
daughter here day after to-morrow. Companion wanted for a month or so,
while in town. May lead to something more permanent. Please say which
train, and she shall be met.—V. Primrose!"

After the first two words, Mr. Ogilvie held out a feeble hand to check
Pauline, but she went resolutely on to the end.

"Miss Primrose must be an oddity," she commented. "What does V. stand
for? 'Violet'! Was that your friend's name? Do you suppose she lives in
Kensington now? This is from Kensington."

"Let me see the address," said Mr. Ogilvie. He gazed at the card with
troubled eyes. "No; she has a country home. Number twenty-seven—I can't
make out the name of the street. It is not a name I know."

"I'll look it out with the directory."

"Pauline can't go off for a month, like that," observed Nessie. "What
nonsense! We can't spare her."

"If it is right, you will have to spare me," said Pauline.

She spoke with the more decision, because she found herself utterly
adverse to the plan. At any other time she would have cared less,
though her objection to strangers was proverbial, and she had a dislike
to London. It would have come as a simple duty, and would have been
accepted as such. But to leave Singleton at this moment, to cut herself
adrift from Rudge, just when he had begun to fall under the sway of
Nessie's attractions—this did seem hard. A month away at so critical a
juncture would probably settle matters. If the slightest hope remained
that Rudge could care for her, that hope would be slain by her going.
And even if she should return at the month's end—even if he and Nessie
should not become engaged meantime—she could not expect to find him
still at Singleton. She might never see him again.

All these thoughts came before Pauline's mental vision, and a voice
within her cried wildly—"I cannot go! I will not go!"

But another voice spoke no less clearly. Pauline, with all her faults,
was no helpless victim to self-pleasing. She had too often put self
aside to be easily vanquished now. If it were right, go she would; and
Pauline felt that it was right. In the face of her reluctant dread, she
asked quietly—

"Which train shall I name?"

"My dear, we must consider: it might be best to enquire further,"
hesitated Mr. Ogilvie.

"Why? What is there to enquire? You know Miss Primrose; and I am old
enough to take care of myself. We can't afford to throw aside such a
chance."

Mr. Ogilvie stroked his chin, and murmured, "You can hardly be ready by
to-morrow."

"I shall pack to-night. I will take one trunk—a small one—and leave a
second ready to be sent, if I should need it. I must go, of course,"
she said, smothering down the revolt within.

"Pauline always does what she likes, and never thinks about other
people," complained Nessie.

"Of course!" Pauline would not betray the sting of this injustice, for
how could she, without betraying the injustice itself? "I must look out
trains, now, and then I must pack. The thing has to be done, Nessie, so
fretting will do no good. You will find it much easier to manage than
you expect."

"I daresay! While you are taking your pleasure away in London!" pouted
Nessie.



CHAPTER IX.

_TO TOWN._

IT was a wet day, so nobody went with Pauline to the station. Why
should anybody? Pauline always took care of herself and of everybody
else—the said "everybody" being personified chiefly by Mr. Ogilvie and
Nessie. Those two liked comfort, ease, and reposeful chairs; and they
were not fond of wind or rain unless in pursuit of their own pleasures.

"Pauline never minded," they said complacently. And Pauline, as usual,
acquiesced.

Nevertheless, when she trudged off alone on her pilgrimage, with a
porter and truck to carry her moderate amount of luggage, she did feel
that it would have been pleasant to have had somebody on the platform
who belonged to her—somebody just to smile a farewell, and to wish her
"God-speed."

For, brave as Pauline was accounted, she did not always feel so
brave below. Fearless as she might seem, she had sometimes a sense
of shrinking, hidden by the uplifted nose and confident air. Nobody
looking on Pauline could have counted her nervous, yet she knew what
certain nervous sensations were—as who does not?—only she was not
mastered by them.

She was going into an unknown land, with unknown possibilities ahead.
Some slight heart-sinking was surely permissible.

And—there was Mr. Rudge! She was leaving him and Nessie behind—Nessie
to look pretty and languishing; Rudge to be caught, as men are caught,
by a pair of soft eyes and a pair of rosy lips.

"They are all alike," sighed Pauline, as she stood waiting, a
bedraggled and wet little figure, on the platform. "It isn't a question
of what one is, or what one is worth; it is just a question of shape
and colouring. A painted doll has the best chance any day, so long as
it is nicely painted . . . I'm not a doll, that is certain, and I'm
not pretty. But I think I can do more than Nessie to make other people
happy."

A touch of bitterness came into the words. She had not even seen Rudge
for a word of farewell. She knew that he knew of her going, but he had
made no effort after a parting handshake.

"Give me that bundle, Miss Ogilvie. The train isn't due for ten
minutes."

Pauline turned, inwardly glowing, outwardly cool.

"Good morning," she said. "I am off to London."

"So I heard. Wasn't it a work of supererogation to start so early? I
strolled down stairs for a final interview, and found you had vanished."

"It's best to be in good time."

"Much the best. How long do you expect to stay away?"

"A month. Miss Primrose has sent for me."

"Ah! Your father's friend?"

"Yes. She is in London, and wants a companion; and she says this may
lead to something permanent. I suppose that means, if she likes me. I
don't see what I could do except go," said Pauline, in appeal. "Nessie
does not like it, but—It isn't that I want to leave them, but—"

"I am sure you are right—quite right. Greatest possible mistake to have
refused."

Pauline's doubts and hesitations fell away like dead leaves; and even
her own distaste faded. If Mr. Rudge approved, she was content. He
had taken possession by this time of her umbrella, her cloak, and
her inevitable "roll" or bundle of wraps. Now he stood looking down
on the little figure with a twinkle in his eyes; and Pauline had the
"protected" sensation which is so specially delightful to those who are
always taking care of others.

"I am so glad you think so," she said earnestly. "It seemed almost
cruel to go away—but if it has to be—"

"People may just as well learn independence before twenty as after
thirty."

"Yes. I am not afraid that they will not manage. One always 'can,' I
suppose, if one must. That was how I learnt. I wish I might ask you a
question."

"So you may."

"But—if you do not wish to answer—"

"Then I'll tell you so."

"About Miss Primrose. Did you once say that you knew her?"

"I think I confessed to knowing a Miss Primrose. Whether she is
identical with your father's friend is another question."

"I'm very much in ignorance about my father's friend. I fancy she is
elderly—and plain."

"Ah!" with slow emphasis. "But 'my' Miss Primrose is young and
beautiful."

"Really beautiful?"

"That is a term used in various senses. Perhaps you would call her
'lovely.'"

Pauline had a sense of dismay, a sense also that she did not greatly
care to make the acquaintance of Mr. Rudge's Miss Primrose. The train
came in before she had decided what to say next. The possessive sound
of that "'My' Miss Primrose" sent an unpleasant shock through her.

"Which class?" asked Rudge.

Pauline was in a dream, actually forgetting to take her seat.

"Oh—third, please," she said.

Rudge found an empty compartment, and placed her therein, stowing away
her belongings.

"Box in luggage-van ahead," he remarked. "You will be off directly. No
long waiting here."

"She cannot be the same," murmured Pauline.

"I beg your pardon?"

"I mean—'your' Miss Primrose. She can't be my father's old friend."

"Hard to reconcile the two descriptions, certainly. But different
people see with different eyes."

"I hope Nessie will not forget to order dinner to-morrow."

"That is a catastrophe not likely to occur often. The consequences are
too disastrous."

The whistle sounded, and Pauline put out her hand, not with her usual
confidence.

"T wish it were over! I wish I were back!" she said.

A guard came along, slamming open doors.

"Stand back, sir," he said, and passed on.

Rudge did not stand back. He bent towards Pauline, keeping her hand for
one moment. "Don't be afraid," he said. "You are doing what is right.
It will all turn out well. Keep up a brave heart, and—God bless you!
God 'will' bless you."

Then the train was off, leaving him behind. But the warmth of those
parting words remained with Pauline, and she was strongly stirred. The
two little closing sentences had for her all the force of a prayer,
followed by a promise.

"It will turn out well," she repeated. "I shall be helped. It is right
to go. I am sure it is right."

Then she settled down, and knitted herself into her usual staid
condition of mind.



CHAPTER X.

_A QUESTION OF AGES._

PADDINGTON STATION at last, after changes and waitings diverse. Pauline
secured a porter, and went with him after her trunk—in a hurry, of
course, though no special cause for hurry existed. Everybody is in a
hurry on arrival at a station, and Pauline proved no exception to the
rule. When her trunk had been extracted from the piles of luggage, she
saw a young footman stroll up and take a negligent glance at the name
upon it. Then he followed it and the porter to where Pauline stood.

"For Miss Primrose?" he asked.

"Yes," Pauline answered.

"This way, if you please. The brougham is waiting."

Pauline's previous imaginings had somehow failed to include brougham or
footman. She had looked upon the rattling London cab as inevitable.

"But this is much more comfortable," she told herself when off.

Within a reasonable time the brougham stopped at a good-sized solid
house, tall in proportion to its breadth, after the wont of town
buildings. A balcony well filled with flowers caught Pauline's glance.
That did not look like lodgings. Had Miss Primrose a town house, as
well as a country house?

"Miss Primrose was out—unavoidably," the footman said, as Pauline
entered. "She would be in presently. Would Miss Ogilvie like to go to
her own room?"

Miss Ogilvie did like, and a maid was summoned to escort her thither.
Plainly this was the best guest-chamber, handsomely furnished, with a
bow-window.

"I don't feel yet as if I was acting 'humble companion,'" Pauline said
aloud. "But that has to come. I'm only on inspection now."

She had time to unpack and put away her belongings, in the midst of
which operation a maid appeared to offer assistance. Pauline, being
of an independent temperament, declined, and the maid vanished.
Nobody else came. A clock struck five, and Pauline's inner woman was
proclaiming the need for afternoon tea.

"I think I'll go downstairs," she said.

She met no living creature by the way, and the drawing-room was
deserted still. Tea stood upon a basket-table, ready for use.

"I wish somebody would appear," murmured Pauline, who was addicted to
audible soliloquies when alone. "I'm desperately hungry . . . I wonder
if I might venture to steal a biscuit! Is it allowable? No, I'm afraid
not. Miss Primrose is a stranger to me."

Pauline roved round the room, looking at photographs and ornaments.

"That's a nice likeness of an old lady. Miss Primrose herself, most
likely. She looks tolerably agreeable. Well, I suppose the next stage
of affairs will be that I shall pick up stitches in her knitting.
If that is the hardest part of my duties, I shall not need to
complain . . . Dear me, I should be glad of a cup of tea. I wish I
might help myself."

"Why don't you?" asked a soft voice, and a girl came forward from the
further door, which Pauline had scarcely noticed.

She was quite a girl, younger than Pauline, with laughing eyes, and
little curls and waves of brown hair above a small oval face, whose
bright bloom contrasted with unusual fairness. A very, very pretty
creature, Pauline saw at a glance—of medium height, beautifully
proportioned, and full of grace. Could this possibly be Miss Primrose?
Pauline stood more upright than usual, unconsciously tilting her nose.

"Is Miss Primrose at home yet? I have come—she sent for me to see if I
should do as a companion." Pauline was determined to begin on no false
pretences. "I think the servants have made a mistake, and put me into
the wrong room."

"O no, it is all right. That is our spare room," said the girl. "My
aunt is not able to come down, I am sorry to say."

"Your aunt, Miss Primrose?" Then this was a niece, a guest.

"May I give you some tea? I am afraid you are hungry?" with a slight
flash of fun.

"Did you hear me? It is so stupid. I always talk aloud when I am alone.
Were you there long?"

"At the door? Only a few seconds. It was so charming, I couldn't
resolve to come forward directly. Pray sit down."

Pauline obeyed, and the pretty creature proceeded to pull off a
handsome cosy.

"Some cream? Some sugar?" she asked. "Do help yourself to
bread-and-butter. You must be half starved. Such a shame that you have
had to wait!"

"Are you Miss Primrose's niece?" asked Pauline presently.

"No, my aunt is Mrs. Palmer. I live with her, but my own name is
Primrose."

"You are not Miss Primrose?" uttered Pauline.

"Strangers generally call me so. My home-name is Viola."

Pauline gave a startled look over her tea-cup, her worst fears
realised. "My Miss Primrose is young and beautiful," Mr. Rudge had
said. Then this "was" Mr. Rudge's Miss Primrose—this charming girl, who
might be called either beautiful or lovely according to taste. Talk of
Nessie's prettiness! The limp and listless attractions of Nessie faded
into nothingness beside the glow and sparkle of—Miss Primrose.

"Did you expect me to be different?" asked the girl.

Pauline murmured some incoherent words, then rallied her scattered
forces.

"But there is some mistake. There must be some mistake. You cannot be
the real Miss Primrose—my father's old friend?"

"Are you sure?"—as soberly as a judge. "Did he ever tell you the age of
his friend?"

Pauline could not say that he had exactly. She only knew—yes, certainly
she knew—that her father had been acquainted with Miss Primrose more
than twenty-five years before—in her own babyhood, in fact. And she
stated as much, confusedly.

"Ah, yes. It will all fit in soon," said Miss Primrose gently. "It's
wonderful how things fit in, when one knows all about them, however
puzzling they seemed before. But sometimes the ins and outs take a
little time to master—like the details of a new science, you know.
We'll go into the question more closely some day soon, when we know one
another. That is the first thing. You are going to be my companion, and
I'm going to learn all I can about you."

"Then—am I to be your companion? Not your aunt's?"

"Why, yes! My aunt has her nurse; and I've nobody to go about with, in
London. People say I ought not to go about alone. When I'm married, it
won't matter, of course," with a smile.

So she was engaged to be married!

"Then was it you, or was it your aunt, who wrote the card to my father?"

"Auntie dictated, and I wrote."

"But—his letter was not to you?"

"You want to grasp everything at once. And I would rather you should
not," declared Miss Primrose, sweetly. "Isn't it good for us sometimes
not to understand? We're a little apt to get conceited, you know,
and to think too much of our own powers." This was in a tone of soft
moralising. "Will you have some more tea? No! Then would you like to
rest?"

"I must write home," said Pauline.

"You will find paper and stamps at the side table here. Perhaps it
would be as well not to puzzle your father with the question of ages
till you understand them better. But do just as you like. I want you to
feel at home. Tell him, at all events, that I will do my best to give
you a pleasant month in town."

"That is all very well. But what are to be my duties?" asked Pauline.



CHAPTER XI.

_MR. OGILVIE'S OLD FRIEND._

PAULINE'S question was left unanswered for the moment, and she decided
not to push it that day. Better to wait and see what was expected of
her.

Seemingly she was expected to be agreeable, and to have an unfailing
fund of conversation at command. Miss Primrose talked all dinner-time,
and nearly all the evening, never oppressively, always charmingly.
Pauline was not gifted in the conversational line, but she felt that
the best part of her was being drawn out by this sparkling creature. It
was impossible not to be at ease, impossible not to converse.

If she were indeed Mr. Rudge's Miss Primrose—but that was the question.
Pauline tried to find out, and failed. Three times she led the talk to
Mr. Rudge; and three times Miss Primrose led it away before her end was
attained. What could Pauline do but submit?

Certain particulars slipped out in the course of conversation. It
became evident that Miss Primrose was an orphan, and had lived, at
least for some little time, with her aunt. Conditions not unlike those
of Mr. Fudge, Pauline remembered. It was also apparent that either she
or her aunt was extremely well off, that they spent part of the year in
this town house, and a larger part in their country house.

"We ought to be there now," Miss Primrose said, "but auntie's illness
has made the journey impossible just yet."

Though Miss Primrose revealed little to Pauline, Pauline revealed much
to Miss Primrose. She had not often so sympathetic a listener. She
told about her own home occupations, about her father's losses, about
Nessie's return from school, and about the need to find "something to
do" for herself, as a means of keeping the other two afloat.

"And now you have found it," said Miss Primrose.

"I don't see what I have to do yet."

Miss Primrose left the room and returned with a confused tangle of grey
knitting. "I wonder if you could possibly manage to put this right,"
she said. "It is past my powers. For the 'old lady,' you know."

"I don't think you will forget my talking aloud," said Pauline, half
vexed.

"Do you mind? Then I will not speak of it again!"

And Pauline was ashamed of her own vexation. "Could I not help you with
your aunt?" she asked. "I mean—help to amuse her, or read aloud?"

"She has not seen anyone yet since her attack, and a stranger's face
too soon might flurry her, but she talks of a visit from you soon."

Pauline was fain to accept the state of things, and to go on, not
understanding. Despite some confusion of ideas, she passed a pleasant
evening. And it would have been more than pleasant, really delightful,
but for a haunting dread about "Mr. Rudge's Miss Primrose." For if this
were she, then indeed Pauline's hopes sank far below zero. How could
any man be expected to turn from such a Miss Primrose to look at her
ordinary little self.

She lay long awake at night, and came down in the morning resolved to
find out more. But the resolve was baffled, Pauline could not tell how.
And when another night came, she was still perplexed.

A week passed thus, agreeably enough, but mysteriously. Pauline had
determined to submit, and to await Miss Primrose's pleasure. Meantime
she was very comfortable, treated not as a "humble companion," but as
an honoured guest, taken hither and thither to London sights, pictures,
music, and aught else that she liked. Pauline wondered at herself
sometimes for not being more "spoilt" by all this ease and enjoyment,
but she took the whole soberly. Her heart was at Singleton, and the
craving to return was sometimes unendurable.

"I don't know what to say to my father," she broke out at length one
day, a full week after she had come.

The morning had been spent in work and reading; the afternoon in a
gallery of pictures and Park crowds. Now she was endeavouring, before
dinner, to answer home letters, and she found herself in difficulties.

"Can I help you?" asked Miss Primrose.

"I suppose you could, but I don't mean to bother you with questions, if
it is too soon."

"Ask any questions you like. You really have been a model of patience."

"It is about Miss Primrose—not you, but my father's friend. He and
Nessie say I tell them nothing, and they want to know more about her.
Am I to say that I have not even seen her, and don't know whether she
exists—that it is all a mistake, in fact?"

"I don't think you need be quite so sweeping. What do you mean by—'it
all'?"

"I mean that you, of course, are not the Miss Primrose he knew
twenty-seven years ago."

"I'm afraid—hardly—since I'm only twenty-five years old."

"You don't look so much."

"No? But my name really is Viola Primrose."

"Some relation, of course. The question is, What has become of my
father's Miss Primrose? I believe you know."

"And if I do?"

"Hasn't the time come for me to understand?"

"Perhaps it has. The other Miss Primrose is upstairs—my old aunt. So
you are right about the relationship."

"But you said her name—"

"Is Mrs. Palmer. She married Captain Palmer two years ago, and lost her
husband in three months. It was just a little interlude in a life of
old-maidhood."

"And my father never heard it?"

"I suppose not. I don't know why he should. There has not been much
intercourse; and one may so easily pass over the newspaper notice."

"Did Miss Primrose—I mean Mrs. Palmer—ever talk to you of having known
my father?"



CHAPTER XII.

_THE REAL MISS PRIMROSE._

PAULINE'S question, "Did Miss Primrose—I mean Mrs. Palmer—ever talk to
you of having known my father?" brought the rejoinder—

"I have heard his name—and a little about him—lately."

Pauline sat thinking, and then with some abruptness put another query:
"Do you know Mr. Rudge?"

"I have known him all my life,"—her colour deepening suspiciously.

"When he spoke of you as 'his Miss Primrose,'—I mean when he spoke of
somebody—he meant you, of course."

"Very cool of him!" murmured Miss Primrose, her cheeks like two roses.
"Did he say that—to you?"

"Yes. I told him that my father's Miss Primrose must be elderly and
plain. And he said, '"My" Miss Primrose is young and beautiful!'"

"I'm very much obliged to him! Now we have settled all that—haven't
we?—and you have asked no end of questions. Our next move is to go
upstairs. I'll show you the real Miss Primrose of your father's
youthful days. Come."

"Is she well enough?"

"Yes—I meant to take you in to-morrow at the latest."

Pauline followed the light steps of Viola Primrose into a bedroom,
where sat an invalid lady, well bolstered up with pillows. She was
in appearance older than Mr. Ogilvie, and markedly plain, with
large features, including a big crooked nose and prominent teeth.
Undoubtedly, Miss Primrose Senior could never have been beautiful. The
grey knitting in her hands was familiar to Pauline's eyes, since every
day she had disentangled the chaos of dropped stitches, pulling out all
that Mrs. Palmer did, and replacing the same with fresh work.

Viola went forward, and kissed the invalid's faded cheek. "Auntie, here
we are," she said. "This is my new friend, Pauline Ogilvie. Daughter of
your old friend, Mr. Ogilvie."

Mrs. Palmer smiled somewhat vaguely, and held out a hand. "How do you
do?" she said. "I am glad to see you. Is this the young lady who puts
my work to rights? She is cleverer than you, Viola, and much cleverer
than nurse. Nurse is very stupid about my knitting. Has she gone
downstairs, by-the-by?—ah, that is right! Miss Pauline Ogilvie, you
say? Dear me, yes, I remember her father—years and years and years ago."

"You and he were great friends, were you not?" said Viola, motioning
Pauline to a seat.

"Why, yes—we were engaged." So Nessie's surmise had been right. "A
foolish affair, no doubt,—very foolish! I was older than he; eight
years older. That doesn't do at all, and I ought to have known better.
He was caught by a pretty face before we married, and broke it off. I
don't think he could help himself."

"He ought to have helped himself," Pauline said, with severity.

"Ah, but I doubt if he could, my dear. He was always rather a weak sort
of nature, you know. I'm sure he was very sorry, and he would have
married me still if I had been willing. Let me see, the girl's name
was—oh, Pauline, of course. But you are not like her—not in the least.
She was fair and nice-looking. Poor Pauline! Oh, I didn't bear her any
grudge, my dear. It was so natural. I never was handsome, and men think
everything of that."

"Now, auntie!" protested Viola.

"It's true, my dear, as you'll find. You will never be at a loss for
husbands," said Mrs. Palmer, with a fond glance.

Viola echoed the plural noun under her breath.

"But it was quite natural that he should get tired of me. I told him
so, and I made him promise, if he should be in any trouble, to let me
know, and I would help him if I could—just to show I didn't bear any
grudge, you know. When he wrote the other day, he reminded me of that
promise. I'm afraid I had pretty nearly forgotten it, but I was glad
enough to be reminded."

Evidently the romance of the old love-story had long since died out.
Mrs. Palmer was more interested in her grey stocking than in the
fortunes of her quondam fiancé, though kindly pleased to help him if
she could. She paused at intervals to count her rows, and she drew
her brows together more seriously over a dropped stitch than over her
long past disappointment. A thousand interests lay between those days
and these. Pauline wondered whether, a quarter of a century later, she
would be able to look back with equal composure to the Mr. Rudge of her
youth.

"When you write to your father, you must be sure to give him my very
kind recollections. Or—yes, Viola will tell you what to say. I get a
little confused, and Viola manages everything. My dear, how many rows
ought I to make here?"

"May I show you?" asked Pauline, moving nearer.

Upon which Viola smiled, and went away.

"It was very good of you to send for me," she said, when the work was
proceeding.

"Viola settled it, my dear; Viola does everything. I don't know, I am
sure, how I shall manage when she is married."

"Is that likely to be soon?"

"As soon as things can be arranged. She would not leave me before, but
that cannot go on, of course. I will not have her sacrificed for me—it
would not be fair. A useless old woman!"

"Miss Primrose would not agree with you, I am sure."

"Viola is the sweetest girl that ever lived. But of course she must
think of Mr. Rudge."

No one could have told from Pauline's face the utter sinking of her
heart. Then—it was true!

"Yes," was all she said.

"It wouldn't be fair to him to go on putting off. If I could persuade
him to live with me, then it would be all right. But he's an odd sort
of man, and he doesn't seem to fancy it. Mind you don't say a word of
this to Viola. I wouldn't have her worried."

"You will have to find a companion to take her place," said Pauline,
with a kind of dead calm.

"Yes, that's what Leonard Rudge says. But I don't see it at all. I
never got on with strangers in any comfort."

"Now, I think your knitting will go beautifully," said Pauline,
standing up. "I mustn't stay too long, or you will be tired, but I can
help you again—any time."

She went quietly away to her own room, locked the door, and stood
looking out upon the street: not a beautiful and interesting heroine
in distress, but a matter-of-fact little being, resolute and brave in
heart.

"So now I know," she said aloud. "Now I understand. Now there can be
no mistake. Leonard Rudge! The full name. And he is engaged to Miss
Primrose! Well, it isn't surprising. She is sweet enough for anything,
and I will not let myself love her less because she is to be so happy.
I don't quite see why—why he was so kind—so good to me!" A lump rose
in Pauline's throat, and two or three big tears struggled out. "But
after all, it was only kindness, only politeness. I never had any real
reason to think more—only my own foolish fancies. I understand now.
He liked my father, and he thought I might do as a companion for Mrs.
Palmer when—when he should marry Viola. So natural! I look like the
'humble companion'—that exactly. I've got to the bottom of things now.
And he just stayed on at Singleton to study me as his old aunt's future
companion. Odd, that 'she' should be my father's old friend all the
time. I don't mean to ask any more questions now of any kind. I've been
a goose, and nobody shall find it out."



CHAPTER XIII.

_DULL LETTERS._

   "YOU certainly do manage to send most dreadfully dull letters,"
complained Nessie, by post a fortnight later. "Anybody else spending
a month in London would have no end of things to tell, but you
give us nothing except a dry list of the places you go to—park,
picture-gallery, museum; museum, picture-gallery, park—that's about
all. And I believe it is pretty much the same to you whether you go out
or stay in, and whether you look at pictures or pull out the old lady's
knitting.

   "Mrs. Palmer must be a most prosy individual. And as for Miss Viola
Primrose, I don't suppose I should think her so desperately pretty.
You are always admiring some hideous person. I believe you thought Mr.
Rudge handsome, and he is as ugly a man as one can come across.

   "So he is engaged to Viola Primrose. I wish them joy, each of the
other. He may be getting a pretty wife, but she won't be getting a
handsome husband. Daddy and I did laugh over your prosaic way of
stating the fact, just as if you had been expecting it all along. You
needn't have made such a fuss, begging and imploring us not to repeat
it. Who is there to repeat it to? I'm not likely to go to Mr. Rudge and
say:

   "'Pauline says you're engaged to Miss Primrose.'

   "Besides, I couldn't if I wished, for he has vanished. Gone home, I
believe. He is coming back, I suppose, some time, for he has the rooms
overhead still, and he has left a lot of things littered about, so the
landlady says. But she doesn't know when he will come, and I am sure it
doesn't matter. I can't think, for my part, why he stays at Singleton
at all. He ought to be where Viola Primrose is; 'I' shouldn't like it
if I were she.

   "When are you coming back? Father says he can't settle any plans till
you do, and it is over three weeks since you went. Is Mrs. Palmer
paying you anything? It seems to me that you are just amusing yourself.
Do pray, write and say something. Singleton in horribly dull, and my
father's clothes are all going into holes, and the weekly bills are
higher than when you were with us. I can't help it. I don't know how to
manage differently. So make haste and come; there's a dear.

                           "Your affectionate sister,

                                               "NESSIE."

Pauline pondered long over her answer to this letter. She had felt
herself impelled to mention Rudge's engagement to Viola, fearing lest
Nessie's fancy might be captivated. And she had done so in the briefest
and driest mode, requesting that the news might not be repeated.
Nessie's answer was satisfactory as regarded that particular item of
information, though not satisfactory in other respects. It spoke too
plainly of the younger girl's indolent and self-gratifying habit of
mind. After much consideration, Pauline wrote as follows:—

   "DEAR NESSIE,

   "I am sorry my letters are so uninteresting, but you know I never
was good at description. Yes, I have been more than three weeks away
now, and I began to wonder what I was expected to do, as nobody said
anything. But yesterday evening—before your letter came—Mrs. Palmer
gave me a ten-pound note, which she said I was to do what I liked with.
I suppose she meant it as a sort of payment. So now we can pay off a
few bills.

   "Mrs. Palmer is so much better that she talks of going into the country
next week. Have I told you that her country house is at Wokingholme?
That explains about Mr. Rudge and Miss Primrose—I mean, it would
explain, if I didn't know now all about things. Mrs. Palmer and Miss
Primrose live only about two miles off from Mr. Rudge, which isn't
much. And years ago, when Miss Primrose wasn't an orphan, Mrs. Palmer
lived with Mr. Rudge—only 'she' was 'Miss Primrose' then.

   "I am afraid you will say that all this is confused. However,
Wokingholme is only a few stations from Singleton, so on Monday we are
all going to Singleton for two or three nights. I shall come home, but,
I am afraid, not to stay. Mrs. Palmer is very anxious to take me home
with her. I suppose the idea is that I am to be her permanent companion
when Viola Primrose marries. She says I suit her so well. It isn't what
I should choose, for many reasons, but one cannot always do exactly
what one would choose."

Little dreamt Nessie, when reading these simple words, of the pain that
lay behind them, of how Pauline's whole being cried out against the
prospect of a home so near that of Leonard Rudge, when he should be
married to another. Yet, if it were her duty—!

   "One cannot always do exactly what one would choose," wrote Pauline
bravely: "though I do assure you, Nessie, I would much rather be at
home with you and my father. It is quite as hard for me as it is for
you. But I am sure these things are arranged for us, and if it is
right—I don't mean to preach, but you know what I mean. One has to be
willing to do what is right, even against one's own will, if one is to
be worth anything in life. Sometimes I suppose one is glad, later on.
Dear Nessie, I do want you to try to be courageous, and to take care of
my father, and to make things comfortable for him. It does need trying,
but I am sure you can learn. Anybody can; it only needs willingness.
The beginning is always a little hard. You see, we can't possibly live
all together on our present income; and I don't think you would like to
go out; so I must.

   "Mrs. Palmer and Miss Primrose want to talk things over, I believe,
with my father, but they don't say much. I asked if you should find
lodgings, but they say a friend will be there on Monday to look out for
them. I fancy they mean Mr. Rudge.

   "Now you must forgive me for writing so plainly; and believe me,

                       "Your affectionate sister,

                                       "PAULINE OGILVIE."



CHAPTER XIV.

_STILL AMONG PERPLEXITIES._

HOME once more! Pauline felt as if she had been away from Singleton for
months. If only she could banish "him" from her thoughts, she might
reconcile herself to the life of a companion. But how could this be?
Mr. Rudge seemed to meet her at every turn. Of course it must be Viola
that attracted him. Why else should he come down and find lodgings
for Mrs. Palmer? But how could she bear to live near him? The thought
stuck in her throat, and try as she would, even money matters scarcely
interested her.

"I am so thankful that we can meet some of our liabilities," said
Pauline, with an effort, as she sat with her sister on the evening of
her return home. "Father thinks everything will turn out right in the
end, and it is so difficult to make him take definite action. Even now
he hesitates which bills should be paid, and ten pounds is so little."

"Oh, leave money matters to-night, Pauline. The Primroses and Mr. Rudge
are only here for a few days; let's have some enjoyment. The monotony
of this place fairly killed me while you were away."

"If only we could get free and live within our means, there would
be no need—" Pauline stopped. "I mean we must think and plan to be
economical. There's the money we have in hand. It might be good enough
to balance some difficulties." Then she thought again of Mr. Rudge. "We
shall see," she said slowly. "Wait till to-morrow."

"So that girl who looked out of the carriage window was Miss Primrose?"

"Yes."

"She's pretty, I suppose. But I don't care for dark women. I like dark
men and fair women."

"She is lovely—much more than merely pretty."

"Well, Mr. Rudge seemed to think so, by the way he went off with her.
He has been careering over the whole place to-day looking for rooms.
I suppose he has found them. Singleton is empty enough. We shall see
nothing of him now Miss Primrose is here, of course."

"Yes, we are to have an excursion to-morrow—all of us together—to a
cove two miles off. Cowe's Cove, I think it is called. Father and you
and I, and Miss Primrose and Mr. Rudge. If Mrs. Palmer is well enough,
she will have a fly, and drive anybody there who doesn't care for the
walk."

"I don't mind that. We haven't had anything in the shape of a picnic
for ages. Are we to have tea on the shore?"

"No; lunch. A boy and donkey will take the provisions. I told them you
and I could manage the walk, but not father, perhaps."

       *       *       *       *       *       *       *

The proposed excursion came off, as it was likely to do if set going by
Viola Primrose, weather proving propitious.

After much cogitation it was decided that Mr. Ogilvie, Mr. Rudge, and
the three young ladies, should all walk to the Cove. And that Mrs.
Palmer should drive to the spot after lunch, ready to give a homeward
lift to any who were unequal to further exertion. Mr. Ogilvie showed
an unlooked-for readiness to exert himself, and Nessie did not mind
fatigue when it became a question of amusement.

For awhile they walked all five abreast, holding general conversation.
When the nature of the path rendered this impossible, Pauline did
her best to slip behind with her father and Nessie, but she was not
allowed. Viola seemed to her most unselfish, Rudge most polite, and
somehow—she hardly knew how—she herself was soberly walking with
Rudge, while Viola followed with Mr. Ogilvie and Nessie. Pauline felt
the state of things to be wrong, and the pleasure was a painful one.
She grew absent and sad under the struggle, asking herself again and
again whether it would not be needful and right to sever utterly all
connection with him, till she should have mastered her heart.

"I'm afraid it has been rather too far for you," Rudge said in a
concerned tone, when they had scrambled down a rough path into the
pretty cove, where the sandstone cliffs hung over, and the waves played
soft music. "You must sit on the shingle, and keep quiet for awhile.
The rest of us will see to lunch. What! Miss Nessie fatigued too!"—as
Nessie, with an injured air, dropped to the ground. "Then Viola and I
will undertake it."

Pauline protested, and was ordered to keep still. While Nessie,
finding it dull to be left with a silent sister, thought better of her
condition, and joined the others.

It would have been hard for Pauline to say whether she was actually
tired, bodily tired, or not. She only knew that she had to submit for
the moment, and that everything was very perplexing. The fascination of
Leonard Rudge's presence was so complete that it was joy to be cared
for by him. And yet she felt that, if she had been Viola, she could
not have approved such a manner to another. She could not understand
Viola's perfect ease and gaiety. Something was wrong somewhere: but
Pauline could not endure to say, even to herself, that Rudge was wrong.

The bitter sweetness of the day was getting to be too much for her; and
the bitterness was fast overmastering the sweet. Seated there alone,
under the overhanging cliff, she came to one clear conviction. Whatever
else might be involved, she could not go to live with Mrs. Palmer. It
would not be right. She had to conquer this unbidden love; and to place
herself within easy reach of Rudge was not the way to conquer.

"Any place rather than Wokingholme for me," she told herself firmly.

A spot was fixed upon, not far from the cliffs, and lunch was spread.
Pauline presently joined the merry group, protesting that she was quite
well and not tired, though Viola accused her of being pale still. She
did her best to laugh and talk like the rest.

The "bill of fare" included sandwiches and meat-patties, rolls and
butter, tartlets, cakes and lemonade,—enough to satisfy even appetites
sharpened by a long walk in sea-air.

Pauline alone dallied with her food, and disposed of little.

"Try something else. That doesn't suit, evidently," Rudge said,
smiling, and offering a meat-patty.

"Oh, it is as nice as possible. I only forgot," Pauline answered, with
a blush. "I'm eating—any amount."

"Pauline always has such a good appetite," said Nessie complacently.

Lunch over, plates and knives were packed in baskets, to be once more
consigned to the donkey-boy.

The last basket was the heaviest, and Rudge helped the boy to carry it
up the steep path. Mr. Ogilvie and Nessie had strolled to the water's
edge at some little distance, perhaps to escape the trouble of packing.
Viola and Pauline stood where the lunch-cloth had lain, near but not
close together, watching the ascent of the basket. Having deposited it
on the top, Rudge turned, and came down swiftly.

"What an active man he is!" Viola remarked, smiling.

Pauline only said, "Yes."

"I've known him all my life, you know—not merely as a cousin, but more
as a brother, and he has always been the same. Always ready to do any
kindness for anybody. Everybody likes Leonard."

"You do, of course," thought Pauline.

"I wonder if you will think his brother at all like him."

Pauline was by this time aware that a younger brother did exist. She
could not but be aware of the fact, since she had seen at least a dozen
photographs of him, and since Viola was always talking of "Percy."
Viola spoke of "Percy" much oftener than of "Leonard," and this seemed
to Pauline quite natural. It was not Pauline's way to talk most of the
things or people she most cared for.

"Are they alike?" she asked. Hitherto she had rigidly adhered to her
resolution to ask no needless questions about Rudge or his belongings.

"Some say yes: some say no. I see a likeness. Pauline, when I am
married—"

Pauline unconsciously drew a pace or two farther away.

"Are you in a hurry to go? I wanted particularly to say something to
you, about—"

A shout from Rudge interrupted them, a sharp loud cry, as of warning.
He was descending the path, when he stopped to utter this shout,
throwing up his arms with a wild gesticulation.

"What can he mean?" exclaimed Viola, turning to look in his direction.

Pauline saw all. A large block of stone was in the act of detaching
itself—in the act of falling towards them. So far as could be judged
in one instantaneous glance, Viola, standing between Pauline and the
distant Leonard Rudge, standing with her back to Pauline and her face
to Mr. Rudge, was exactly in the line of its descent. While Pauline's
last move, a little to the left, had placed her nearly, if not quite,
out of that line. A further retreat in the same direction would ensure
safety to Pauline. But Viola!

It might seem that there was no time for Pauline to think, yet in a
time of emergency thought is wonderfully rapid. Pauline was quite
collected, and in that fraction of a second she knew that if she fled
away from Viola to the left, she would escape. But if she crossed the
path of the coming danger, she and Viola might both escape. True, in
the latter case, both might be struck down, yet it was only a might be.
In the former case her own safety was not more assured than Viola's
injury. For Viola did not understand the peril. She stood with her back
to Pauline, gazing with innocent surprise at Rudge. If Pauline fled the
opposite way, there was no possibility of making her understand.

All this came to Pauline in one flash. Words were not formed in her
mind, but resolution was co-incident with action. She saw, felt, and
did, in the same moment—the same part of a moment. Succession of ideas
no doubt there was, but a mental microscope would have been needed to
make the succession apparent even to her own mental vision.

"Run! Run!" she shrieked, as she sprang towards Viola, and Viola fled
in advance of her, terrified at she knew not what.

The block fell, and was shattered into fragments, which bounded
seaward. Viola escaped unhurt, but a large lump flung Pauline to the
ground.



CHAPTER XV.

_"MR. AND MRS. RUDGE."_

"PAULINE—my dearest!"

It was like a dream to Pauline. She came to herself quickly, conscious
of pain somewhere, but not yet able to localise it. Distant cries in
Nessie's voice reached her first; then a sob close at hand; then a deep
masculine utterance of wonderful words—"My dearest!" And she opened her
eyes to see the ruddy face she so well knew bending over her, almost
colourless.

"You are not hurt! Tell me," he implored hoarsely.

"It's nothing. I'll get up," said Pauline, and she actually pulled
herself to a sitting posture. There she had to pause and lean against
Viola, very white. "I'm a little—stunned, I think." she murmured. "Is
nobody else hurt?"

"Nobody else,—you dear, brave girl," said Viola. "Nessie is only
frightened. She won't come near, or let your father come."

"And Viola is safe!" Pauline looked at Rudge, smiling her
congratulation. "I've saved her—for you!" she said. Then remembrance
came of those words, "Pauline—my dearest!" And a sharp pain darted
somewhere,—she had to pause and think where. "My—arm, I believe," she
said.

"Only the arm,—nothing worse?"

Viola was feeling the arm gently. "Not broken, I hope," she said. "But
what are we to do? The carriage will come directly. We must get her up
the cliff, and take her home. She cannot walk, Leonard."

"O yes, I can!" and "Certainly not!" came together.

"Why, Pauline, my dear,—how is this?" demanded the uncertain tones of
Mr. Ogilvie, coming near. "Not really hurt, I hope? Poor dear! Nessie
is so alarmed. Don't you think we ought to get out of the way? A
further fall might take place. How did it all happen?"

"It happened that she saved me at risk to herself," Viola said, with
full eyes.

"Really!" uttered Mr. Ogilvie incredulously. He was so used to think
of Pauline as only a useful mender of stockings, that any touch of the
heroic in her life came as a surprise,—hardly even a pleasant surprise,
for people do not like to find themselves mistaken in their estimates
of others.

"Nothing else could have saved Viola," said Mr. Rudge, hoarse still
with strong emotion.

Pauline believed it to be an emotion of thankfulness for Viola's
escape, and yet—had she heard those words aright?—And if so, what did
they mean?

"Yes, we should get out of the cove as fast as possible," Rudge
continued. "I had no idea it was such an unsafe spot. Will you see to
your younger daughter, Mr. Ogilvie? I shall carry Pauline—Miss Ogilvie,
I mean—up the cliff. She cannot walk: no, certainly not."

Pauline protested, and found her feet slowly, every movement meaning
pain to the injured arm. "I would much rather walk," she said. "I am
only a little shaken—and bruised, I think."

She might as well have argued with a stone wall. "There is no time to
be lost," he said authoritatively. "Another fall of stone may take
place at any moment. Viola, get away as fast as possible. Look out and
see if the carriage is coming." Then without further ado, he lifted
Pauline, as if she had been a feather, and bore her swiftly over the
crunching shingle.

Nessie had already reached the foot of the path, which she ascended
with Viola; and Mr. Ogilvie followed alone some little way in the rear
of Leonard Rudge. Burdened as the latter was, he could not overtake the
girls, if indeed he meant to do so. Half-way up he paused, and Pauline
said,—"I wish you would let me walk. I would 'much,' rather."

"If it will make you happy. We are out of danger now, and need not
hurry."

"Thanks." Pauline was glad to find herself in a normal position. She
stood still to smooth her ruffled plumage, and winced.

"Ah, the pain is bad, I'm afraid."

"Yes. I suppose the stone came against that arm."

"No; the stone must have spent most of its force. It merely knocked
you down; and you fell upon your arm. You are not fit to walk, Miss
Ogilvie—or—" a pause—"will you give me the right to call you 'Pauline?'"

He had a startled look in answer. Pauline's was not usually a very
expressive face, but there was no mistaking its expression at that
moment.

"Is it too much to ask?" he asked, his face falling. "I have hoped—"

"But—but—Viola!" she said.

"Viola!" He stood still, looking down at Pauline's upturned face. "Is
it possible that you—was that what you meant just now? Surely you know
that Viola is engaged to my brother Percy!"

A flood of light was poured over Pauline, illuminating her past, her
present, her future. Of course! How stupid she had been. Anybody else
must have seen and understood. Perplexities fell to the ground.

"No—I had not heard," she said. "At least—I didn't understand. I—I
thought—"

"Thought Viola was engaged to me!" in astonished accents.

It was not Pauline's way to cry easily, but between disturbed nerves,
pain, and mental agitation, she was on the verge of tears. To escape
such a catastrophe, she hurried bluntly into speech, saying the first
words which came to mind,—"Oh, but you know—you did call her—'your'
Miss Primrose."

"In contradistinction to your father's Miss Primrose. To be sure,—ha!
ha!" laughed Mr. Rudge, but the laugh had a forced sound. "Well; and
she is mine—my cousin now, my sister to be. What matters that? She
could never be anything nearer—even if—"

"Even if—?" repeated Pauline enquiringly.

"Even if I had never met Pauline Ogilvie!"

After that, little more needed to be said, yet the saying of it
occupied some time. Never was a cliff more slowly ascended than by
those two. Mr. Ogilvie overtook them and passed by unnoticed. Wisely,
he made no remarks. Before Leonard Rudge landed Pauline at the summit,
he and she were promised, each to the other.

"You dear little goose, not to understand!" Viola exclaimed, when the
state of affairs was revealed. "Aunt Viola said she had told you, so
of course I didn't explain, and you asked no questions. But I'm sure I
must have talked of Percy a hundred times."

"Yes—and hardly ever of—Mr. Rudge," said Pauline. "I thought you were
shy."

"Shy! Ah, you don't know me, do you? Pauline, have you really, truly,
honestly believed all along that you were destined for my aunt's
companion?"

"Honestly," Pauline could aver.

"And you never saw through my little dodges? You never dreamt that I
guessed what Leonard was after down here, and that I wanted to see
what manner of choice he was making? Dear innocent old boy—he didn't
understand, of course? Don't be angry, Pauline, for he is wonderfully
innocent—and yet, I must confess, one never is quite sure how far he
does see, with those good-humoured eyes. Anyway, he lent himself to
my little schemes, and betrayed 'nothing to nobody!' A man can be
circumspect when he chooses, there's no doubt—and I don't believe he
half knew his own mind, till you were out of reach."

"I don't think I understand yet what made you and Mrs. Palmer send for
me."

"I'm not sure that I understand it fully myself," Viola answered
merrily. "One does a lot of things from sheer impulse. But anyhow, I'm
not sorry."

Nor could Pauline regret it. She was very happy. Things had indeed
"turned out well" for her, as foretold by Leonard Rudge a month
earlier—"well," not alone actually, but also apparently.

Had she shirked her plain duty, and remained at the seaside to be
near Rudge, results might have been different. At that time Leonard
Rudge had been, to say the least, uncertain as to his own feelings and
desires. Pauline's departure, the manner of their goodbye interview,
his sensations of loneliness in a dull watering-place without her, and
a succession of enthusiastic letters from warm-hearted Viola, all had
had a marked share in bringing him to the point.

Lastly, that point was attained through the accident on the beach,
which called out the heroic side of Pauline's nature, and finally
revealed to Rudge that he could not be happy without her. True, the
same accident entailed on Pauline some weeks of suffering in the
twisted arm, but it may well be believed that she would not have given
up the joy to escape ten times as much pain.

Before many months had passed, there was a double wedding: Pauline
becoming Mrs. Rudge of Wokingholme, Viola becoming Mrs. Percival Rudge.
Since a Miss Primrose no longer existed, my story naturally ends here.
It may, however, be added that Mr. Ogilvie and Nessie found a home near
Mrs. Palmer; that Nessie, under the pressure of necessity, developed
certain new and useful qualities, and that she grew in time to be a
prime favourite with the old lady, her father's friend, the quondam
"Miss Primrose."



                           [Illustration]

                          _A Strange Will._

                           [Illustration]



                           A STRANGE WILL.

                           [Illustration]

CHAPTER I.

_MAKING A WILL._

"THE blind lower, Sparks!"

"Yes, sir."

"Bring my watch to this table. Mind you don't take it away again.
Extraordinary that you never can remember! I can't see the clock,
lying here. My writing-case has gone too. Put it beside me. Mr. Harvey
promised to come, you say?"

"Yes, sir."

"Was that a ring at the front door? Go down and see. Let me know who it
is—sharp! and don't dawdle."

Sparks vanished with his air of wooden composure, which might or might
not have meant patience; and Mr. Detroit lay under luxurious wraps on a
wide couch at the foot of the bed, breathing sonorously.

He looked very ill, oppressed, sunken, and pallid. Once upon a time,
Mr. Detroit had been a fine and well-built man, but old age had bowed
and shrunken his frame, and the iron grip of sickness had laid him low.

Neither old age nor suffering had been softening in their effects.
There were lines of weakness, but none of tenderness, around the cold
lips; and no gleams of changeful light were visible in the stern eyes.

Mr. Detroit stood singularly alone in the world. He was without kith
or kin, unless of the most distant description. He had made, in his
lifetime, few needless acquaintances, and fewer friends. His relations
with those who worked under and for him were purely business relations.
They did so much for him, and he paid them so much for the doing. That
was all. He took no interest in them personally; neither did he expect
them to take any personal interest in him.

Except from a business point of view, it mattered little to any human
being that he was ill. Nobody loved him; nobody had any cause to think
of his name with affection or gratitude. The "joy of doing kindnesses"
was a joy unknown to Gilbert Detroit. Not a man, woman, or child
was consciously the better for his seventy years' residence on this
earth. He had lived for himself, pleased himself and enriched himself
exclusively. Now life seemed to be drawing to a close, and a new
anxiety came upon him.

It was an anxiety which had not troubled him hitherto. Like most old
men in good health, while knowing himself old, he had reckoned on an
indefinite term of life. He had gone on carefully amassing wealth,
adding pound to pound, never worried by the question, What was the
use? For he had no child, no brother or sister, no nephew or niece, to
inherit the whole. That had not mattered while he was well. The mere
delight of money-getting had been sufficient in itself. To some natures
there is a keen delight in it, hardly to be understood by natures of
a different mould; and the higher cravings which exist originally
in every man may be so withered by long neglect, that at last they
actually die out, the lower and meaner satisfaction becoming all
sufficient—just for the time! Things were so with Gilbert Detroit.

But health failed, and death threatened; and then the question arose,
Whose should all this money be, which he had laboriously gathered
together?

The thought troubled him a good deal. It kept him awake at night, and
haunted him by day. No man likes to feel that his life's toil has been
thrown away. The object of Mr. Detroit's toil, through a goodly part
of seventy years, had been wealth, more and more wealth. Now he had
the wealth, and he might not stay to enjoy it. Then, whose should it
be? Who should enjoy the fruits of his labour? Relatives—he had none!
Friends—he had none! Servants and employés—well, he had, but he did not
care for them. The poor, the sick, the needy—Bah! Gilbert Detroit had
never given of his riches "in charity" during life; why should he so
give after death? He did not approve of people, poor or sick or needy.
It was their own fault, commonly: or if not, it ought to have been; and
in any case he had nothing to do with the matter.

At length he decided to send for his solicitor, Edmund Harvey, an
honourable and high-principled man, not wealthy and still young, but
doing well in his profession. Mr. Harvey was "sensible," the old man
told himself; and Mr. Harvey might see a road out of the perplexity.

This step taken, neither Sparks nor any other member of the household
knew five minutes' peace until Harvey arrived.

The room in which Mr. Detroit lay was large, airy, and replete with
comforts. Nothing which money could purchase had been spared, except
the touch of womanly fingers. Mr. Detroit trusted to Sparks, and
scorned the idea of a nurse. Sparks had not done badly for the sick
man, on the whole: but his arrangements were apt to be, like himself,
somewhat stiff and angular.

"Mr. Harvey, sir."

Sparks ushered in the expected visitor, and stolidly awaited orders.

"Mr. Harvey! How do you do?" the old man said, with no relaxation of
the rigid lines round his mouth. It might be that from long disuse of
the exercise, he had forgotten how to smile. "Excuse my getting up. I
am ill. Pray sit down. A chair, Sparks—no, not there. This side. How
stupid you are! Yes; now you may go; and mind you shut the door."

The new-comer, a slightly-made and not tall man, perhaps between
thirty-five and forty in age, in colouring pale, in manner frank and
gentleman-like, took the offered seat.

"Sparks told me of your indisposition," he said. "I am sorry to hear
it. A chill, I believe."

"A chill originally, perhaps. One theory is as good as another to
account for an illness."

"Are you feeling somewhat better?"

"Not better at all. Not likely to be so," was the tart response.

After a pause, Mr. Detroit continued—"I have seen a doctor, to please
my man. Quite useless, for I knew that nothing could be done. My
father died in the same manner, and I have no faith in physicking at
my age. But Sparks was urgent, and I consented to call in Sir William
Mann, just for an opinion. I told him plainly I didn't require any
medicine—didn't believe in medicine—and he told me quite as plainly
that in that case he could do nothing for me, and his coming again
would be useless. I like outspokenness, and I liked the man. We shook
hands over it, and I shall try something that he recommended, but it
will make no difference. I don't mean to say that there is immediate
danger, only it is the beginning of the end."

He spoke with a hard and chilly indifference still, as he might have
alluded to a necessary business journey.

"Life may be lengthened, even where full recovery is perhaps
impossible; and painful symptoms may be lessened," suggested Harvey.
"You are wise at least to try what can be done."

Mr. Detroit shook his head impatiently.

"Enough on that subject," he said. "I am too old to be argued out of
my way, and I require your help in another quarter. I wish to make my
will."

He fixed his leaden eyes upon the younger man. Harvey signified assent.

"You shall have the needful papers. Most of them are in yonder bureau.
If it is not troubling you too much, perhaps you would unlock the upper
half with this key. Thanks. There is a roll of papers in the right-hand
drawer—yes—those—if you will be so good as to bring them. You will find
all the information needed, as to investments, and so forth. The entire
amount at my disposal amounts to close upon £50,000. Not bad for one
who began life without sixpence in his pocket—eh?"

Mr. Detroit spoke complacently, and Harvey answered, "No, indeed!" with
a touch of surprise. He knew Mr. Detroit to be a man successful in
business, and successful too, of late, in certain speculations, but he
had not quite expected this.

"And you propose to leave the bulk of it to—"

"That is the question!" said Mr. Detroit. "I have nobody belonging to
me. I am at a loss what to do with the money."



CHAPTER II.

_A STRANGE DIFFICULTY._

HARVEY'S wonder grew as Mr. Detroit explained his difficulty. The state
of things seemed unusual.

"Your nearest relatives?" he suggested.

"I have no relatives—none at least that I care to acknowledge as such.
There are, perhaps, a few who might wish to put in a claim to distant
cousinship. Ridiculously distant. We are all cousins, I suppose, in
Adam. I am nothing to them, and they are nothing to me. Practically I
stand alone. Surely you were aware of this."

Harvey might have heard the fact before, but he had not grasped it. He
intimated as much.

"Well, it is true. I have never had brother or sister, uncle or aunt,
cousin or nephew or niece. My wife, who died three months after our
wedding, was in much the same position, and I have never married
again—why should I?"

"It is a remarkable case," the solicitor said.

"No doubt. The question now is—what to do with the money? Somebody must
have it."

"If you have no relatives to claim a share, what of your friends?"

"I have none," the old man curtly replied.

"None?"

"No."

"But you have had friends in the course of your life. Are there no
young people left in whom you are interested—the sons or daughters of
old friends? No young married couples, for instance, to whom a legacy
of a thousand pounds would be invaluable."

"Young people have no business to marry. I did not marry till I was
past thirty; and you are not married yet. That is sensible; but rushing
into married life without proper provision is not sensible. Besides, I
object to leave my money in mere driblets—a thousand here or a thousand
there. I will leave the whole in a lump, where I do leave it. As for
friends, I have never troubled myself to make intimacies. What is the
use? I do not believe in that sort of thing. Immense amount of humbug
is so-called 'friendship,' as you know well enough."

"There are exceptions, I hope. Was not Mr. Plunkett an exception?"

"Nathaniel Plunkett? Well—perhaps—yes. Good fellow—true as steel. Yes,
we liked one another; and he didn't try to get anything out of me. One
of your clients, was he not? You are aware that I was present when he
met his end."

"By drowning—"

"Ay; drowned within sight of land. Most unfortunate event. I was one of
the spectators. No help could reach him soon enough. That was—how long
ago? Dear me, time flies; why, it is over six years ago. But Plunkett
was a good fellow—well meaning, and so on."

"It must have been a great shock to you."

"It was a warning. A man past sixty has no business to get out of his
depth when bathing. Absurd! Yes, he went after a girl, I believe, and
lost his own life without saving hers. He should have left that sort of
thing to younger men."

"Mr. Plunkett left no children, I suppose?"

"Plunkett never married, and I have nothing to say to his brothers."

Difficulties seemed to thicken.

Harvey sat patiently, pencil in hand, waiting for something to note
down.

"Your servants," he suggested. "I believe most of them have been long
in your house. Probably you would wish to leave them legacies."

"Well—yes—I have no particular objection. Not much sense among them,
but they do tolerably well. Ten pounds apiece."

Harvey had expected to hear of one hundred pounds apiece, perhaps more
for Sparks.

"Your manager?" he proposed next, referring to Mr. Detroit's house of
business in the City. "He has served you faithfully, and work has told
upon his health. I have seldom come across a more worthy man than Mr.
Marson. You will, of course, wish to leave him some substantial token
of your regard."

"Well—yes," said Mr. Detroit.

"And the clerks. They have worked well for you. I know two or three
promising young fellows among them whose families are in straitened
circumstances."

"Well—well—yes," said Mr. Detroit peevishly.

"Would you like me to get a list of their names, and call again?"

"If you choose. Just as you choose," said Mr. Detroit. "You may put
them all down at ten pounds apiece."

"But Mr. Marson?"

"Put him down for one hundred pounds," with evident reluctance.

Then a pause came. The two or three hundred pounds thus bestowed would
make small inroads into the fifty thousand.

"I really don't see that you can do better than to leave the bulk of
your money to some charitable institution," Harvey said at length, a
further attempt in favour of Mr. Marson having failed. "The building
and endowing of a hospital, for instance—or of an asylum. Or, what
should you say to a church in some needy part of the East End?"

Mr. Detroit was not fascinated by the proposal. Plainly it was
distasteful. Through about seventy years of life he had existed purely
for self, had thought only of self, had ignored the claims of the poor
and suffering; and through the latter half of those seventy years,
he had not cared to darken the church doors on his own behalf. To
such a man, the bestowal of fifty thousand pounds—the fruits of his
life-work—upon hospitals, asylums, or church-building would naturally
seem only one degree removed from tossing the same into a gutter.

"I'll tell you what!" he said suddenly, with an air of relief. "I shall
leave it all to 'you,' and you may do what you think best with the
money. That will be my wisest plan. Why didn't I think of it before,
and save myself all this bother? Yes, yes—you shall have the whole."

Harvey stood up.

"I beg your pardon," he said gravely. "You are very good to form such a
plan, and I am far from ungrateful. But I could not accept so serious
an offer at a moment's notice. I must have time for consideration. Will
you let me say goodbye now, and call again to-morrow?"

"Certainly! Certainly! Good-bye. But my mind is made up," said Mr.
Detroit.

Edmund Harvey lingered one moment, looking down with pity upon the old
man in his wealth and dire poverty.

"Would you not like to see a clergyman?" he asked.

"A clergyman? What for?"

"It might be a comfort. You are ill, you know, and perhaps—"

"I shall be better now that weight is off my mind. Yes, I'll leave the
money to you, Harvey. It couldn't be put to a better use. Good-bye; be
sure you come again to-morrow. A clergyman!—no, thanks."



CHAPTER III.

_"MISS HARVEY."_

EDMUND HARVEY left the house of Mr. Detroit in a state of considerable
preoccupation. It is not often that fortunes of £50,000 go begging in
this style; or that a young solicitor has such an offer made him by a
client.

That Harvey should neither have hastily accepted nor hastily refused
the offer spoke well for him. He would not undertake such a trust
without weighing the matter well beforehand: yet a refusal might be
wrong. Somebody would have and use the money. Why should it not be in
his hands a power for good?

"Hallo!" a voice said, breaking into his reverie as he went along the
busy street, threading his way in the neat mechanical style of an
experienced Londoner.

Harvey came to a standstill, with nod and smile of greeting.

"Fine day!" he said.

"I was under the delusion that it had begun to drizzle, but of course
you know best," the other responded, with a comical glance at the
murky surroundings. He was five or six years Harvey's junior, tall and
blithe, with confident bearing and line outline of face—a man to be
liked and trusted at first sight.

A laugh answered him.

"I had not noticed the drizzle."

"Wits gone wool-gathering?"

"I had a knotty point to unravel. I say, Campion, come home with me to
dinner. My sister arrived yesterday."

"Thanks. I think I will. No engagement this evening, happily, and it is
an age since I saw your sister. Let me see—she lives at Portminster.
Yes, of course."

Harvey nodded.

He seemed still to be in a state of semi-abstraction, at which Campion
would have wondered less had he known the cause.

"I wish I could persuade my mother to make her home in London, but
nothing will induce her to leave the old neighbourhood."

Mr. Detroit was a tea-merchant. His gains had been not only through
the tea-business, however. He had also been a successful speculator,
in a small way, on the Stock Exchange; and much of his success in
that direction was due to the keen foresight and the prudence of his
"broker."

Arthur Campion was his broker. Rather singularly a personal friendship
existed, and had for some time existed, between Mr. Detroit's solicitor
and Mr. Detroit's broker.

Mr. Detroit's West End house being at a goodly distance from Harvey's,
the latter hailed a hansom, and the two friends were speedily set down
before a lofty and narrow dwelling, chocolate-tinted, in a highly
respectable quarter, having about it a generally well-to-do air.

Harvey opened the front door with his latchkey, and led the way
upstairs into a three-windowed drawing-room.

Campion had seen Harvey's sister before. He remembered her well: a busy
active woman, somewhere in those hazy middle-aged regions which are
supposed to follow directly after thirty, but which often wait a good
deal longer; the very embodiment of common-sense, with a round-about
little figure, plump face, and no particular features; also with powers
of talk to any extent on every imaginable subject. Campion never
counted Miss Harvey equal to her brother; still on the whole, he liked
her, when she did not quite overpower him with her excellent theories.
One may weary even of excellence, when it takes too obtrusive a form;
and no man over thoroughly admires a woman who is not at least as good
a listener as talker. But nobody expected Miss Harvey to condescend to
the position of a listener. Life was not long enough for all she had to
say.

So Campion entered the drawing-room, picturing to himself a homely
figure seated primly on the sofa, knitting perpetual stockings, and
ready to welcome with enthusiasm a new listener. He had actually shaped
his lips into the "How do you do, Miss Harvey? Any more reclaimed
vagabonds to the fore?"

But Campion never uttered those words. For the slender girl-figure,
tall and reed-like, springing from a lowly position on the rug, was by
no means that of the Miss Harvey whom he had known; neither were the
soft grey eyes and cherry lips those of thirty or forty years.

"Harvey's sister! Why, she can't be over twenty! A quarter of a century
between them," thought Campion, with perhaps excusable exaggeration,
for he was much surprised.

"I have brought a friend home to dinner, Gabrielle," Harvey was saying.
"Mr. Campion—my sister Gabrielle."

Gabrielle had evidently been playing with the kitten on the hearthrug,
for a small fluffy creature clung still to one shoulder, with its claws
in her fair hair.

Edmund Harvey, unlike many men, was a patroniser of cats. She put up
one little hand to disentangle the creature, laughing, blushing, and
bowing in response to the introduction.

"Had a very lonely day?" asked Harvey, depositing himself in an
armchair.

"O no, not at all. Mrs. Wiseman took me in the morning for a shopping
expedition, as you know, and this afternoon Mrs. Taylor drove me
through the Park. I enjoyed that, of course. If only the good people
there did not look so terribly bored, one might think they liked it
too."

"They are taking their pleasure in their own way—English fashion," said
Campion.

"It seemed to me a sad fashion. I could almost have counted the smiling
faces on my fingers."

"This is Gabrielle's first visit to town," explained Harvey.

"Indeed! Then you have still to be initiated into the fashionable
boredom of London life."

"But I never was bored, and I mean never to be," she retorted merrily.
"Yes, I am only a country cousin; this is my first sight of London.
They all said I ought to come, and Ted—Edmund, I mean—would not let me
off. I like it all immensely, of course; everything is so new to me.
And the Park was perfectly delightful—for a variety. I think I should
soon get tired of the monotony, if it came every day."

"Monotony is commonly supposed to be the exclusive privilege of country
folks."

"But I am sure I had a glimpse of it to-day, for the first time in my
life."

Gabrielle presently vanished to dress for dinner, and Campion
exclaimed—"This is another sister, not the one I have seen."

"She is my half-sister, a good deal younger than Mary and myself. Did
you not know there was a second marriage?"

"I didn't take in the fact of a daughter, somehow, or at least that she
was like—"

Campion came to a pause.

"Like this? She is a pretty creature, certainly. I have hardly begun to
realise that she is leaving childhood behind. My stepmother is never
content to have Gabrielle out of her sight. Otherwise, she would often
have been here. My dear fellow, you must have heard her name a hundred
and one times!"

Campion was not sure.

"Well, yes—her name, certainly, now I think of it," he said. "I had a
sort of idea of a little school-girl—"

"Which she was until six months ago."

"A niece, or adopted child, or something of that sort?"

"Is a step-sister 'something of that sort?' Anyhow, she is a
particularly nice girl. Perhaps one ought not to mention school in
connection with Gabrielle. Mary has been responsible for her education."

Campion could have groaned aloud in pity for the pupil. Yet he only
knew one side of the matter; and Gabrielle had been better off than
he in his ignorance supposed. Mary Harvey, letting off a volley of
theories for the enlightenment of a masculine hearer, and Mary Harvey
in the quiet round of daily home duties, were two very different people.



CHAPTER IV.

_"A COUNTER-PROPOSAL."_

HARVEY had not so much to say as usual during dinner, which, by-the-by,
was well served, with all the particularity of a bachelor household.
His thoughts were much occupied still with Mr. Detroit.

But Gabrielle and Campion allowed few conversational gaps, and his
occasional abstraction was hardly noticed.

Gabrielle was a well-read and well-informed girl, quite able to hold
her own in touch with another's mind; and the graceful union of girlish
freshness with womanly thought fascinated Campion. He had never come
across anybody like her before.

Somewhat later in the evening Harvey's absence of mind became more
marked. They had returned to the drawing-room, and Campion jested him
on a prolonged fit of silence, demanding the cause.

"I was speculating at that moment," Harvey answered, "as to what you or
I would do if fifty thousand pounds came suddenly into our hands."

"Shouldn't have the slightest objection," Campion said lightly.

Gabrielle's face took a serious set.

"Would you be puzzled what to do with the money, Ted?"

"I might be. The case I am supposing is of money left to one in trust,
to be used wisely for others."

"H'm, that alters the case materially."

"I know what 'I' would do," Gabrielle said, with her pretty girlish
decisiveness. "I would build a hospital for Portminster. It is needed
so terribly. I do think that ought to come first in our charities.
Able-bodied men may know what it is to be poor and have trouble, but
they can work; they are not helpless. It is when illness comes that
want is most dreadful; and I don't see how one can expect to do good
to them—to their minds and hearts—unless one does good to their bodies
first. Isn't that the Christ-like way? I would build and endow a
hospital, and would give free admission to anybody or everybody in real
need—not, of course, to stingy well-to-do people, who just want to save
their shillings for their own pleasures."

"Why, Gabrielle, you are eloquent," her brother remarked, smiling.

"I think I could supplement Miss Harvey's hospital with something not
less needed," Campion said, falling into Gabrielle's line of thought.
"I should like to start a country or seaside home, to lessen the number
of the hospital patients. No, not a convalescent home, but a place
where one might send the worn-out city poor at little or no cost—the
deserving poor, I mean. Hardworking fathers and toiling mothers, for
instance, just to give them the change they need before they break
down."

"I like that idea," murmured Gabrielle.

"Hospitals and convalescent homes are well enough, but they come after
the breakdown," pursued Campion, warmed by her sympathy. "I would try
in some cases to forestall the need for either. There are poor fellows
whom I know at this moment, going on hard and fast for a crash. They
can't get away, can't afford journeys or lodgings. A fortnight in the
country might set them up for months, and they can't have it. Just the
old story, you know—the bread-winner failing, everything depending on
him, and nothing to be done."

Harvey sat in thought as the others talked. A new idea had dawned upon
him.

Next day, he found his way once more to the bedroom of Mr. Detroit, and
was greeted with the abrupt observation—

"My mind is still made up. I hope you have no objection to offer."

Harvey shook hands, asked after the old man's health, sat down, and
presently said:—

"I am going to make a counter-proposal. Will you leave the money to
Campion and me jointly, to be used in such a manner as may seem best to
us both? I should prefer this to the sole responsibility."

"Campion! Campion! Why Campion particularly? But I don't know that I
have anything to urge against the plan, if you wish it. Campion will do
well enough, jointly with yourself. Yes—if you like."

The matter was arranged thus. The will was in due time drawn up—not, of
course, by Harvey himself—signed, and witnessed. With the exception of
a few small legacies, the whole sum which lay at Mr. Detroit's disposal
was left between Edmund Harvey and Arthur Campion, to be employed by
them as their united wisdom should dictate. "For charitable purposes"
was rather implied than stated, and rather by Harvey's wish than by Mr.
Detroit's.

But after all these preliminaries, Mr. Detroit did not die.

Whether from the removal of a weight from his mind, whether from the
medicine he had consented to "try," or whether from his native force of
constitution, instead of getting worse, he began to improve.

At first he refused to believe in the possibility of a change for the
better. Having doggedly made up his mind that death was inevitable,
he hardly cared to be disturbed in the belief. It upset his plans, so
to speak. Nevertheless, as days went on, there could be no denial of
the fact. He was stronger, he suffered less, he had a better appetite.
By-and-by he could leave his room; then he was able to drive out.
And at length, he might once more be seen in his counting-house, or
hovering about the regions of the Stock Exchange.

He was not, of course, sorry to come back to life. Few men are, even
when they have treasure in another world; and Mr. Detroit had no
treasure there. Had he gone, he would have left behind him all that he
cared for. Perhaps this fact dawned upon him faintly; at all events, as
he became stronger, his love of life returned.

Mr. Marson, his head-manager, a thin, worn, gentle-mannered man, was
glad to see his employer back, though Mr. Detroit bestowed upon him no
kind words or looks. Long experience had taught him to expect none. Yet
his face showed pleasure when he congratulated the old man on recovery.
The clerks ventured upon no such congratulations. In Mr. Detroit's
eyes, they were merely a set of human scribbling machines. He would
have been very much astonished at any show of feeling on their part.



CHAPTER V.

_THE PROGRESS OF EVENTS._

IT became evident that Mr. Detroit was a good deal changed by his
illness. His hair was whiter, and the furrows on his face had deepened.
Moreover, he walked with a somewhat trembling gait, and seemed
altogether unstrung—not so entirely master of himself as he wished
always to appear.

In another respect also there was a marked alteration. He grew more
chatty, more garrulous, more disposed to let slip whatever happened to
be in his mind.

Mr. Marson was the first to remark upon the new phase of affairs.
A quiet man, given to few needless words, scrupulously exact and
honourable in all his dealings, Marson was just one of those toiling
and worn-out fathers who might be benefited by such a scheme as the
one Campion had suggested to Gabrielle. He had an invalid wife, one
daughter, and numerous boys.

During many years he had not been out of the City, except for a day.
How should he? Prolonged and hopeless ill-health in his wife was a
ceaseless drag upon his resources, and the needs of his young growing
family seemed never to be satisfied. Although Marson's position under
Mr. Detroit was a responsible one, involving heavy work, the salary he
received was by no means large. Mr. Detroit habitually ground down his
subordinates to the lowest possible terms.

"What did they want with more?" he sometimes asked.

And though of late, when seemingly about to quit this world, Mr.
Detroit had found a difficulty in settling what to do with his wealth,
yet now that he had come back to a measure of strength, he showed
himself as keen as ever in business, as eager to amass more money, as
resolutely bent upon saving. "The ruling passion" would be strong even
in death with him.

"I had a curious talk with Mr. Detroit this afternoon," Mr. Marson
observed one evening to his daughter. They were together in the shabby
small drawing-room of a small house.

The younger boys were in bed; the elder boys were learning their
lessons elsewhere. Mrs. Marson could seldom come downstairs. All the
cares of housekeeping and of nursing devolved upon the shoulders of
this slim pale girl with large wistful eyes—grey eyes, not unlike those
of Gabrielle in colour and size, but how different in expression!
Ella was only seventeen, a whole year younger than the fair and
light-hearted Gabrielle. She might have been ten years older, if one
judged by her prematurely burdened and serious look.

"With Mr. Detroit?" she repeated, looking up from the child's sock over
which her fingers were busy.

"He kept me quite a long while, chatting about his own affairs. Mr.
Detroit never used to be so communicative."

"What was it all about?" Ella asked, and then she flushed up for a
moment, the bright colour fading quickly. "If he thought rather more
about your affairs, father, it wouldn't be so very surprising, after
all these years."

She could be resentful for others under the long pressure of daily
life, and she had not attained to her father's enduring patience.

"My dear, Mr. Detroit counts me amply repaid for all my services. He
has said as much to me. But it was curious," Mr. Marson continued,
unheeding a slight exclamation from Ella, "very curious. He spoke
of his illness, and of the extreme perplexity he had felt as to the
disposal of his money. The matter seems really to have weighed upon
him. After a good deal of hesitation, he decided to leave the whole to
Mr. Harvey and Mr. Campion, with the exception of a few small legacies.
You see he has no near relatives—no relatives at all, some say—and
has made his own fortune. He is, of course, perfectly free. But the
decision struck me as—well, rather singular."

"I know who has made a great deal of his fortune for him!"

"I have tried to do my duty, Ella; that is all."

"And he has not done his; so that ought not to be all!"

"It is well that we are alone," Matson observed. "But you would not
say this to another. Mr. Detroit has kept strictly to the original
agreement. I have no just cause for complaint. Some in his place,
prospering as he has prospered, might perhaps—but I see no use in
suppositions. If I were a younger man, I should press for an increase
of salary. As things are now, I hardly dare to venture. Many an
unencumbered man would gladly step into my place on my present terms;
and if I lost the work, it might be hard to find another opening
equally good. I am not the man that I was."

"If not, it is work for Mr. Detroit that has worn you out, father."

"Come—I shall be sorry that I have told you so much. I did not mean to
excite you. My dear, this must not go any further. Mr. Detroit made no
mention of secrecy: still it ought not to become known through us."

Ella promised silence, and kept her word. The thing did become known,
however—not through the Marsons, but through Mr. Detroit's own new-born
talkativeness. He went about telling everybody of his will-making,
his difficulty and its solution, his lack of relatives and his chosen
heirs, till the story became a leading topic of conversation among his
acquaintances. Certain needy individuals of the "sharper" class, whose
tie of consanguinity with Mr. Detroit existed probably in Japhet, began
thereupon to prick up their ears.

Many months had slipped by since Mr. Detroit's illness, and it happened
that for about a quarter of a year Harvey had held no intercourse with
the old gentleman. He had been very busy; time had gone fast; and he
had no especial call in that direction.

One murky February afternoon, as he passed rapidly along the crowded
pavement of Cornhill, and turned down a side street, blocked with huge
vans and patient dray-horses, Harvey narrowly escaped "colliding" with
his friend Campion. Each exclaimed "Hallo!" and each recoiled.

"The very person I wanted to see!" burst simultaneously from two mouths.

"You first," Harvey said, smiling. "Mine is not business—merely
about—But go on."

Campion wore a disturbed look.

"Merely about—? Yes. Pray tell me. I hope—I hope your sister is well."

"Mary? Oh, perfectly well. I'll tell her you kindly made enquiries.
What had you to say?"

Campion seemed for a moment to have forgotten. "Do you know that Matson
is ill?" he asked, after a pause.

"No; poor fellow."

"I don't know what is the matter. Over-work and under-feeding, I
suspect. And how on earth they are to get on, I don't know either. Mrs.
Marson has been worse lately—suffers terribly. And that poor girl—it's
enough to kill her."

"I'll look in and see them. Something ought to be done. I have a great
respect for Marson."

"There's something else. Mr. Detroit has broken down again."

"Seriously?"

"Hopelessly, I am told. Not many weeks to live."

Harvey was pursuing his way along the quieter side street, Campion
having turned to accompany him.

"When did you hear?" asked the former.

"Two days since. Met the old housekeeper. The breakdown seems to have
been unexpected, but from her account, he evidently hasn't been himself
for a month or so. Sparks is turned off, and a new man installed. The
old woman is very indignant, of course."

"H'm!" said Harvey.

Campion lowered his voice.

"If I were you, I would look up the poor old fellow. I hear from
another source that a set of harpies are after his money, getting him
to make a new will. Nephews and cousins innumerable have suddenly
turned up, and he believes it all. A regular organised attack. He won't
see a doctor, so there's nobody to interfere—except you."

"He has no nephews, and no cousins within four or five degrees."

"There may be cousins of the fiftieth degree. They are laying claim to
some sort of connection—so I am told. You had better test the truth
of the report, and see that the poor old chap isn't swindled out of
everything he has. They would find him a tough enough customer in
health, but things are different now. I have no more to tell you. What
had you to say?"

"Nothing much. My sister is coming again."

"Your sister—ah!—the eldest, of course?"

"No; Gabrielle."

"O indeed!" and Campion endeavoured not to seem too delighted.

"Mary is your favourite, no doubt—that stands to reason. She is such a
good deserving creature. I like her to be appreciated; and Gabrielle is
a mere chicken. My dear fellow, don't look so furious. You are coming
out of your way, I'm afraid. Don't take another step. I'll tell you all
about Gabrielle another day. You must come to meet her—though she isn't
Mary!—and meantime Mary shall be sure to hear of your kind inquiries.
I'll write to fix an evening. Good-bye."

Harvey walked laughingly off in one direction, and Campion strolled
dreamily in the other. Business, noise, crowds, murky sky—all were
forgotten. He walked through light and trod upon air the rest of the
day.



CHAPTER VI.

_NATHANAEL PLUNKETT._

"MR. DETROIT! Yes, sir—certainly, sir. He is seeing friends, though not
able to leave his room. Pray step in, sir."

Harvey stood at the front door of Mr. Detroit's house. The servant
who opened the door to him was young and sharp-eyed, manifestly a new
importation. Was this Sparks' successor? Sparks had not been wont
commonly to answer the door-bell.

"Will you please, sir, to wait your turn in the dining-room?"

The man moved in that direction.

"Wait my turn! What for? Stop!" Harvey said. "I don't understand."

For a moment he wondered whether he could have come absently to the
wrong house-to a dentist's, for example—but the surroundings were too
familiar.

The man gave him a keen glance.

"Then you're not another of Mr. Detroit's relations, sir?"

Harvey saw through the tangle at once.

"No relation at all, but an old friend. You were not here when I called
last?"

"No, sir; there's been a lot of changes, and there's like to be a lot
more. Everybody's new except the housekeeper, and she's only staying on
because she can't be got to go. I've been three weeks, and I'm going at
the month's end. And the butler's new too, and 'he's' going. I'm just
answering of the door for him now while he's out."

Harvey stood considering. He could not quite read the man's expression.

"Mr. Detroit has had callers lately, you say—relatives."

"Cousins and nevvys by the dozen, sir. Never knew an old gentleman
who'd got such a lot of kind relations, all a-wanting to ask about his
health. And he won't have one refused. He sees 'em all in turn, up in
his room. The housekeeper says it's killing of him, but he won't stop.
I thought at first you was maybe another nevvy, sir."

The man's tone, though not rude, was free.

"You were mistaken," Harvey answered gravely, and he subsided.

"Anyways, I've got to obey orders," he said, with more meekness. "Would
you please to wait here?" and he opened the dining-room door.

Harvey had not made up his mind what to do. He stepped forward, and
took a good look round.

Several individuals were present; some belonging apparently to
the "shabby-genteel" class, the shabbiness predominating over the
gentility; some more flashy in appearance. One gentleman in checked
trousers sat upon the table, taking pains to display a diamond ring
upon the little finger of his left hand. Others lounged about in easy
chairs or on couches. Wine and spirits stood on a side table, and
half-emptied cups of tea were about. A certain amount of talking and
laughing went on. Harvey knew instantly that a good many of these
gentry were not strangers to one another. His first thought was, "Is
this an organised conspiracy?" his second, "Have I misjudged that man's
look?"

Then his resolution was taken.

"Ah! I am afraid I cannot wait so long to-day," he said aloud quietly,
and drawing back, he shut the door.

"Now," he said, in a low voice, "I am a busy man, with no time to
waste, and I wish for a few words with Mr. Detroit. Is he alone?"

"Bless you! No, air. There's a pack of 'em with him now—always is."

"That can't be helped. If you will manage to take me upstairs at once,
I will make it worth your while."

The man rubbed his cheek dubiously. "Well, sir, it's against orders,
and strict orders too, for Mr. Detroit is a very particular sort of a
gentleman, and no mistake. But I don't know as it matters to me if he
is put out. I'm leaving in a week."

"He will not be 'put out.' I am an old friend of Mr. Detroit's."

"I shouldn't wonder if he'd ought to see you," the man said. "There's
something that isn't as it should be; and the old gentleman's in
a state to be easy imposed on. That's what I say. If he's got any
friends, they 'd ought to see him—if 't isn't too late, that's to say.
For he's been and gone and done it now—signed the new will this very
morning. And I suppose his cousins and nevvys is all come to thank him,
and to make sure as nobody meddles."

"No doubt they will be the gainers by this new will."

"No doubt, sir. And if they 'was' his near relations—if so, be that's
all true—why there's nothink to be said agin it."

"Certainly not. Thanks for your information."

Harvey had an impression that the man was straightforward, though by no
means averse to making capital out of the said information.

"You're welcome, sir. Fact is, I don't like to see a poor old gentleman
put upon, and nobody to help him through. No, I don't like it, and
that's a fact. They do say as his last will was a queer 'un, but I
shouldn't wonder if this was a queerer."

"Will you tell someone to answer the door in your absence. I should
rather wish you to be present as a witness during the interview. What
is your name?—ah, Blake. I think I may trust you, Blake. You mean well
by my old friend."

His penetrating glance was met frankly. "I hope as I do, sir," Blake
answered. "Yes, I'll give orders, and I'll stay. One moment, please."
He was speedily back, adding, "This way."

Harvey followed him up the broad staircase to the first floor. "A set
of harpies!" he muttered. "Nephews and cousins, indeed."

Mr. Detroit lay once more on the couch, in the guise of a complete
invalid. He was much changed, his features having a sunken and dark
look; and his voice was weak and piping, as if all strength were gone.

The housekeeper stood in the background, with a face of grim
disapproval; while three individuals—gentlemen in dress and by
courtesy—were grouped around the couch. One stood upright; one leant on
the footboard of the big bedstead; one sat in a dégagé attitude astride
a chair, facing its back, as he joked his invalid "uncle."

Harvey bowed slightly. He knew these people by sight, and was
acquainted with their character. Covert glances exchanged among the
three showed that they also know him.

The alteration in the old man really grieved Harvey. The hand of coming
Death had already drawn legible strokes on that poor withered face. But
Mr. Detroit did not seem to be depressed. He was laughing when Harvey
approached—a weak continuous laugh.

"How do you do?" Harvey said kindly. "Not so well lately, I am afraid."

Mr. Detroit showed no surprise at his unexpected visitor. He glanced
vaguely once or twice in his direction, then beckoned him nearer.

"I say,—" he beckoned again, till Harvey bent over the couch; "I say,"
and the old face assumed a childish cunning, while he spoke in a
mysterious undertone; "I say, I've seen Nathanael Plunkett."

"Indeed!" Harvey answered.

"Yes, I've seen Nathanael Plunkett. Came yesterday."

A silence had fallen on the others. Harvey held the old man's attention.

"You saw him—how?"

"I say," beckoning again and laughing feebly, "I saw Nathanael Plunkett
yesterday. You know! Plunkett himself. He came in and stood just
there—where you are. I've seen him!" Mr. Detroit nodded two or three
times in confirmation of his own words.

Harvey stood up and glanced round significantly.

"Gentlemen, you will please to note this. You may not be aware that Mr.
Plunkett died nearly seven years ago, and that our friend Mr. Detroit
witnessed his death by drowning. Mr. Detroit now declares positively
that he saw yesterday, in this room, a man whom he knows to have been
seven years dead."

The faces grew longer, and there was no response.

Mr. Detroit, after muttering again, "Nathanael Plunkett—yes, I saw
him—came in here," turned aside and seemed disinclined for further talk.

Harvey took his leave, not forgetting to reward Blake as he went.



CHAPTER VII.

_BROKEN ICE._

ONCE more Gabrielle Harvey had come to her brother's house.

Somebody besides Harvey was more than glad to see again that fair young
face. Campion had lived upon recollections of it month after month.
Time had deepened rather than lessened the impression made on him. He
could have no manner of doubt now about the state of his own feelings
towards her, and indeed nobody else could have any doubt about them
either. But Gabrielle's state of mind towards him remained still an
unknown quantity in calculations as to future events.

She had come earlier this year than last, and a late frost held London
in its grip. Two days after her arrival, the brother and sister sallied
forth to watch the crowds of skaters in the park. A low grey sky
contrasted with the white ground, but despite the greyness, people
were full of merriment—much more gay, Gabrielle thought, than when
performing the stately carriage circuit on balmier afternoons.

Her own face, sparkling with enjoyment, won a good deal of attention.
She was rather shy of skating in so large a concourse, though quite
capable of it. Looking on was perhaps the more amusing to her
unaccustomed eyes.

As she clung to her brother's arm, chatting, she presently noted three
little boys in well-patched knickerbockers sliding in a retired corner,
while a tall girl stood watching them—a girl of any age, Gabrielle
thought, she had so young and yet so old a face. It was a pretty
outline of feature, seen sideways from Gabrielle's position, with long
lashes drooping over sorrowful grey eyes, and a patient curve of the
full lips. The girl's dress was very plain, yet neatly and gracefully
worn. She had no furs like Gabrielle; only an old cloth jacket, and a
knotted silk scarf, and a small brown bonnet of unknown age.

"But what a sweet look!" Gabrielle burst out softly, as the finale of
her cogitations.

"That young lady? Yes, I know her—the daughter of Mr. Detroit's
manager." Gabrielle noticed an unusual interest in Harvey's tone.
"Marson is an excellent fellow—I have the greatest esteem for him."

"She is too young to look so very serious. I should like to see her
smile."

"Poor girl! I am afraid there is cause enough. Small means and large
family. The mother incurably ill, and the father just broken down."

"Ted! And you can tell me so quietly! Why isn't something done? Why
don't you help them?"

"How?"

"I don't know. Give them what they need."

"My dear child, it is not so easy. One gentleman can't walk in upon
another, and present him with a cheque for two or three hundred
pounds—even if he had it to spare. Marson is a thorough gentleman by
birth and breeding—well connected, I believe."

"She is very lady-like—one can see that at a glance. And such pretty
eyes—if only they were not so sad. Why don't you speak to her?"

"We are mere acquaintances. I have spoken to Miss Marson twice or three
times. If she would glance this way—"

"She won't. I believe she doesn't choose. Or perhaps she has forgotten
who you are. You must get me to know the Marsons—do, Ted."

As she spoke, Campion stood before her. He and she had met the day
before, but for a few minutes only.

Campion had dragged since through interminable hours of alternate hope
and despair. Hope struggled uppermost, as he met her sunny glance.

For the moment she lost sight of the Marsons and their troubles.

"Don't you skate, Miss Harvey?"

"Yes, in the country—but not here. I'm not used to such a crowd; and it
is such fun seeing all the people. Don't let us keep you off the ice."

Campion had not the least desire to skate that day, and he said so.
Gabrielle was kind enough to seem unconscious of the skates dangling
from his left hand.

"By-the-by, have you heard the news?" he inquired suddenly of Harvey.

"No. What news?"

"Mr. Detroit's death."

"No!"

"Quite sudden, this morning. Nobody expected it so soon. I heard by
accident."

The sad-faced girl, watching her little brothers, happened at this
moment to be within earshot. She turned sharply, with a blank and
startled look, as if to listen.

"I had no idea—I wish I had called again," Harvey said in a troubled
manner. "Poor old man!"

"You have been so busy," Gabrielle observed.

She drew his attention to Ella Marson's scared face, and his hat was
immediately lifted. But Ella Marson did not seem to notice the gesture,
or to recognise him. Her wide-open grey eyes were gazing into vacancy,
as if in piteous appeal against some threatened ill. Gabrielle's own
eyes grew moist.

"How unhappy she looks!—So terribly distressed. What can it mean?"
whispered Gabrielle.

And Campion asked, "Who is that?"

"Marson's daughter. I am afraid Mr. Detroit's death may be a serious
matter to the Marsons. If the business passes into fresh hands, a
younger man is likely to be preferred in Marson's place."

Harvey spoke low.

"He is very dependable. It is not impossible that he may be kept on,"
said Campion.

A shriek arose—shrill, sudden, and echoed by many voices.

While Ella Matson had been absorbed in attention to what was said, and
then had been lost in her own thoughts, one of her little brothers,
Jemmie, had taken the opportunity to slide past a certain warning-post,
which told of danger beyond.

For three seconds he enjoyed the forbidden delight. Then the ice
yielded beneath him, and with a piercing cry, he went down out of sight.



CHAPTER VIII.

_A RESCUE._

NO sound escaped Ella's lips as she rushed over the slippery surface
towards that perilous neighbourhood. But another was quicker. As she
sped along, Campion dashed ahead, and Harvey's hand came upon her arm
with a firm grasp.

"No use for two to go. Wait—" as she struggled wildly to escape—"wait,
Miss Marson—"

"No! No!—I must," panted Ella. "I ought to have been looking! O, how
could I forget? O Jemmie, Jemmie—"

"They are bringing ropes and planks," Harvey said, encouragingly. "See,
Campion is getting near, and you could not do more. The weight of a
second would only break through, and make matters worse."

She gave him one mute glance of agony, which stirred him as Harvey was
not often stirred, and then allowed herself to be led to his sister's
side.

"Keep Miss Marson here, Gabrielle," he said briefly. "I must see if I
can help."

The girls stood side by side, not speaking, only Gabrielle's little
hand stole into Ella Marson's, and the two hands remained locked
together. Until that moment utter strangers, they seemed suddenly
to have become one in fear and hope. But they did not even exchange
glances. Both pairs of grey eyes were strained towards the black water.

Campion, lying flat, worked his way over the bending ice till close
to the hole. A little dark head could be seen there, floating on the
surface, and Campion's outstretched hand grasped it. There was a shout
from the on-lookers, suddenly stilled. For the ice upon which Campion
lay shivered beneath him into fragments. Instantaneously both he and
the child went down.

One long scream rang out in a woman's voice—not Ella's voice, for Ella
made no sound. Those around knew that the cry came from the lips of
Gabrielle Harvey. She did not hear it herself. She looked like a frozen
statue, rigid and white.

Help was close at hand: if it might be in time. Neither Campion nor
Jemmie could be seen.

Planks were pushed over the ice, and men were at work with ropes and
axes, above all with willing hands. The ice had to be broken away,
cautiously, yet fast. Harvey had gone to offer his services. He came
back presently to the two girls, standing still side by side with
locked hands where he had left them. Gabrielle's clutch was like that
of a vice.

Ella could not free herself, could not get away. She looked very white,
but was not shedding tears. And even in that moment of suspense, she
could notice pityingly the wordless horror of her companion. Long
training in early life had taught her self-command and self-neglect.

Harvey would not soon forget this which he saw in Ella Marson.
Self-absorption would have been more likely at such a time in any other
girl of his acquaintance.

When he came up, she said steadily, "I think you ought to see to your
sister. She is—" and then huskily, "O, tell me! Are they saved?"

"They were under the ice. They are taken out," Harvey said hurriedly.
"You must come away, both of you. Come with me. Take my arm, Miss
Marson—and you, Gabrielle: can you walk? Yes; this way—make haste. I
hope all will be right."

He hardly knew yet what to say, what to expect, only he was bent upon
not letting them see the two unconscious death-like forms.

"Everything will be done at once that ought to be done. A doctor is
there. This direction, Miss Marson."

"Why may I not stay with Jemmie? O, let me stay!" implored Ella.

But he urged her on. "No, not yet—presently. They are being brou—they
are coming to. Quick, if you please."

Gabrielle obeyed like one in a dream, not speaking. It was as if some
wild creature were clutching at her throat, preventing utterance. The
overwhelming distress which she felt, startled herself.

"No one must see—no one must guess," a voice in her heart kept, saying.
"I must be calm—I must keep calm," and she thought herself successful.
But if so, it was only because Harvey was, for once, too much absorbed
in another to give her needful attention.

A house was reached, Gabrielle had no idea where. She only knew that
somebody took her in, somebody held water to her lips, somebody bade
her wait there quietly, somebody tried to keep Ella also, and failed.
Ella had the right to go, and Gabrielle had no right. What cause had
she to grieve if Campion died, more than over the loss of a casual
acquaintance? But he was more to her than a casual acquaintance, and
she knew it now.

She had to wait, as bidden, for she might not go to ask how matters
stood. Rather it was needful that she should school herself to merely
the expression of a kind and gentle anxiety. Campion's sudden death
would be indeed a grievous thing in the eyes of anybody, and Gabrielle
had to take it outwardly just as "anybody" might.

Standing up, she walked to the fireplace, and there her glance met the
reflection of a wax-like face, absolutely devoid of colour, the blue
eyes fixed in wretchedness.

Then the door opened, and somebody again came in. Gabrielle dared not
glance up—dared not let her eyes be seen. She only turned slowly,
listening, expecting the worst.

"My dear Gabrielle!" Harvey exclaimed, appalled by the change in her
look.

Gabrielle's lips moved with a voiceless question.

"I ought to have seen—I did not understand that you were feeling so
acutely. Miss Marson said something, but—cheer up, Gabrielle. It will
all be well now, I trust, thank God. We were very much afraid for a
time that all was up with the child, but he has come to himself. Miss
Marson has behaved nobly—she might be a woman of thirty, so composed
and ready. My dear girl, you really are too sensitive!" This was for
the benefit of another auditor just entering. "Come, try to give me a
smile, and be natural again."

Gabrielle could not hear, could not understand what he said. She
listened in vain for Campion's name. Would Edmund never go on—never say
another word? What could this dreadful pause mean—except—the worst? The
pause lasted two seconds only, but to Gabrielle it seemed endless. She
was strung up to the highest pitch of endurance.

"Miss Harvey! Gabrielle! You are ill!" another voice exclaimed, in a
tone of deep concern.

Gabrielle could not help herself. She turned towards Campion, held out
both hands with one low cry of relief, and then burst into a passion of
weeping.

"Come—come—come!" Harvey said, shaking one arm gently as if to rouse
her. "My dear child, you are quite hysterical. What does it all mean?
The shock, I suppose. Yes, I ought not to have left you so long alone.
Did you fancy Campion was drowned? Come now, I must get you home as
fast as possible."

But Campion had the two little hands in his grasp, and seemed by no
means anxious to give them up. "Would you have cared very much if I
'had' been drowned?" he asked softly.



CHAPTER IX.

_WASTE PAPER._

HARVEY saw his sister safely home, having rather hurried her away
from Campion. It was very easy to see whither things were tending,
but he did not particularly wish a dénouement to take place just
then, during a time of general excitement. The drive was silent and
not long. Gabrielle began already to feel ashamed of the feelings she
had betrayed: only, side by side with the shame was a dawning of new
happiness.

Harvey said nothing till they reached his house. He went indoors with
Gabrielle, spoke a few kind bracing words, advised two hours' rest
in her own room, and re-entered the hansom. Ten minutes brought him
to the porch of a goodly West End mansion, inhabited by a friend of
Harvey's—more strictly speaking, a friend of his father's—who was also
an eminent judge.

Harvey alighted, dismissed his chariot, and made his way to the front
door.

The eminent judge was at home, and very much engaged. Harvey's card,
however, proved potent, and the dignified butler led him across the
hall to a shut door, within which he speedily found admission.

There a huge fire blazed merrily, and piles of books and papers upon
the writing-table almost hid from view the undersized slight man
beyond. Harvey could see only the expansive forehead, overshadowing a
pair of deep-set and critical eyes.

"Ha, my friend Harvey! How do you do? Quite well?" asked the judge,
with his inviolable air of composure. "Yes, very busy, but I can spare
you a few minutes."

"I will not take up much of your time," Harvey said apologetically.
"There is a certain point on which I should be glad of your opinion."

"By all means," and he was motioned to a chair, the judge resuming his
own seat.

Harvey thought for three seconds—not longer—how to open what he had
to say. He had already decided to present the case in supposititious
terms. When he began, it was without preamble.

"An old man, worth some fifty thousand pounds, falls into ill-health,
and makes his will. He has no living relatives, and he leaves the
whole between two of his friends,—two at least in whom he feels a kind
interest. Nearly a year later, he again falls ill. He then makes a new
will—no matter under whose influence—entirely subversive of the last.
This will receives his signature; and on the same day a singular thing
occurs. The old man has once known intimately a certain individual—John
Smith, let us say—and several years earlier has with his own eyes
witnessed the death of John Smith by drowning. Upon the day that the
new will is signed, a friend calls to see him, and, in the presence of
three other gentlemen and two servants, he seriously assures his friend
that, the day before, this same John Smith has paid him a visit in that
very room. The assertion is repeated, and insisted on."

Harvey paused, then asked, "Would the new will stand?"

The eminent judge put a few brief questions, receiving brief replies.
When his opinion came, there was about it no tinge of hesitation. "Such
a will would be worth no more than waste paper."

"If you were a legatee by the first will, you would contest the second?"

"Undoubtedly I should."

Harvey thanked his friend, apologised again for the interruption, and
withdrew.

"As I expected!" he said to himself, passing down the stone steps. "But
it has been touch and go. If I had not called exactly when I did, the
machinations of that miserable crew would have succeeded. It was mere
chance, as one talks of chance, that I met Campion there and then. I do
not believe in chance, however. May it not be 'meant' that the money
should go to some better purpose?"

Even then Harvey did not return home. He stepped into an omnibus, and
went some distance before alighting, thereafter finding his way on foot
to the Marsons' home.

It was only natural, he told himself, that he should call to see how
they were getting on, and whether the parents were the worse for
hearing of their little boy's peril. But it appeared that Ella, with
a thoughtfulness beyond her age, had guarded them from any needless
shock. They were only much moved and very thankful. Ella was suffering,
he could see, she looked so pale and hollow-eyed, but she had no
leisure to think of her own feelings, or to rest. When he spoke a word
of sympathy, she nearly broke down, and begged him not to go on—yet
somehow, he fancied that she liked it from him. She asked him to see
her father, and Harvey came away from the interview, touched with the
man's quiet endurance of trouble.

If this money should come to him and Campion, the first consideration
would be the question of Mr. Marson's due. Harvey made up his mind on
that point. As he had told Gabrielle, he could not walk in to present
the Marsons with a cheque for their necessities, but it would be quite
another matter if, in making use of Mr. Detroit's accumulated hoards,
they were to weigh the just claims of those who had long worked under
the old man for an inadequate return.

Harvey could not get Ella's young sad face out of his mind. It haunted
him incessantly.

Campion came next day to dinner; not, however, to hear of the
interview with the eminent judge. Harvey said nothing about it, and no
recollections seemed to trouble Campion of the merchant dying in his
wealthy old age, alone and friendless. Campion's mind was full of other
matters.

He found Gabrielle quite restored to her usual girlish beauty, and
to more than her usual girlish dignity. For, in dismay at her own
lack of self-control the day before, she had sternly resolved to keep
Mr. Campion now "quite at a distance." Nobody should ever say that
Gabrielle was too easily won.

So a very uncomfortable evening was passed by the three; Gabrielle
being cold and distant, Campion shy and miserable, Harvey perplexed
what to make of them both.

The dénouement might have been postponed indefinitely. But at the very
last moment, Gabrielle relaxed. "Good-bye," she said gently; "I hope—I
hope you are not any the worse for your adventure." And the pretty
lips, proudly set hitherto, trembled like those of a child.

Harvey was considerate enough to walk out of the room on some flimsy
pretext, and Campion was prompt to use his opportunity.

Thus before nightfall Gabrielle and Arthur were engaged.

Days passed, and each will was put in claim. After many days, the
opinion of the eminent judge proved to be correct.

The last will was found to be literally "worth no more than waste
paper." That one feeble utterance of the old man about his quondam
friend, Nathanael Plunkett, defeated all the false claims of his
would-be legatees.

The large sum of fifty thousand pounds falling thus within the absolute
power of Harvey and Campion might well have proved no small temptation
to them. Had they spent at least part upon themselves, some observers
would scarcely have been astonished. For they were not strictly bound
to devote the whole to charitable purposes, although in a measure this
was implied by the terms of the will.

But they rose superior to the temptation; and it speaks well for human
nature—not human nature unaided—that they did.

The much-needed hospital for Portminster was built by Harvey; and some
such scheme as Campion had devised for city toilers was carried out by
Campion.

Before these greater matters received attention, however, the needs of
the Marson family came up. Through the strenuous exertions of Harvey,
Mr. Marson kept his situation, and not only kept it, but had his salary
raised, under the new heads of the business. Moreover, he was persuaded
to accept from "The Detroit Fund" a cheque in additional payment for
his past services—not, indeed, very large, but yet enough to go far
towards ending the bitter poverty from which he and his had suffered so
severely in time past.

It was remarkable how often Harvey found it needful to call at the
Marsons' house, and to discuss plans with Ella Matson. Gabrielle
wondered first, and then was delighted. She did all she could to help
the matter on, sure in her heart that Ella would be the very girl to
"make Ted happy."

That consummation came about in the end, though not quickly. After due
waiting, two weddings took place, not far apart. It would be hard to
say which of the two young wives, Gabrielle Campion or Ella Harvey,
found greater interest thereafter in helping forward the benevolent
uses of the fund, which had so strangely fallen to the keeping of their
husbands.

If any are disposed to think that Harvey and Campion acted with an
extreme and unlikely disinterestedness, I can only answer that the main
particulars in this story of an old man's will are not fancy, but fact.








*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MISS PRIMROSE ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


